1. She is the first one to coin the term “NURSING PROCESS” She introduced 3 steps of nursing process which are Observation, Ministration and Validation.

Nightingale
Johnson
Rogers
Hall
2. The American Nurses association formulated an innovation of the Nursing process. Today, how many distinct steps are there in the nursing process?

APIE – 4
ADPIE – 5
ADOPIE – 6
ADOPIER – 7
3. They are the first one to suggest a 4 step nursing process which are : APIE , or assessment, planning, implementation and evaluation. 1.Yura, 2.Walsh, 3.Roy, 4.Knowles
1,2
1,3
3,4
2,3
4. Which characteristic of nursing process is responsible for proper utilization of human resources, time and cost resources?

Organized and Systematic
Humanistic
Efficient
Effective
5. Which characteristic of nursing process addresses the INDIVIDUALIZED care a client must receive?

Organized and Systematic
Humanistic
Efficient
Effective
6. A characteristic of the nursing process that is essential to promote client satisfaction and progress. The care should also be relevant with the client’s needs.

Organized and Systematic
Humanistic
Efficient
Effective
7. Rhina, who has Menieres disease, said that her environment is moving. Which of the following is a valid assessment? 1.Rhina is giving an objective data, 2.Rhina is giving a subjective data, 3.The source of the data is primary, 4.The source of the data is secondary
1,3
2,3
2.4
1,4
8. Nurse Angela, observe Joel who is very apprehensive over the impending operation. The client is experiencing dyspnea, diaphoresis and asks lots of questions. Angela made a diagnosis of ANXIETY R/T INTRUSIVE PROCEDURE. This is what type of Nursing Diagnosis?

Actual
Probable
Possible
Risk
9. Nurse Angela diagnosed Mrs. Delgado, who have undergone a BKA. Her diagnosis is SELF ESTEEM DISTURBANCE R/T CHANGE IN BODY IMAGE. Although the client has not yet seen her lost leg, Angela already anticipated the diagnosis. This is what type of Diagnosis?

Actual
Probable
Possible
Risk
10. Nurse Angela is about to make a diagnosis but very unsure because the S/S the client is experiencing is not specific with her diagnosis of POWERLESSNESS R/T DIFFICULTY ACCEPTING LOSS OF LOVED ONE. She then focus on gathering data to refute or prove her diagnosis but her plans and interventions are already ongoing for the diagnosis. Which type of Diagnosis is this?

Actual
Probable
Possible
Risk
11. Nurse Angela knew that Stephen Lee Mu Chin, has just undergone an operation with an incision near the diaphragm. She knew that this will contribute to some complications later on. She then should develop what type of Nursing diagnosis?

Actual
Probable
Possible
Risk
12. Which of the following Nursing diagnosis is INCORRECT?

Fluid volume deficit R/T Diarrhea
High risk for injury R/T Absence of side rails
Possible ineffective coping R/T Loss of loved one
Self esteem disturbance R/T Effects of surgical removal of the leg
13. Among the following statements, which should be given the HIGHEST priority?

Client is in extreme pain
Client’s blood pressure is 60/40
Client’s temperature is 40 deg. Centigrade
Client is cyanotic
14. Which of the following need is given a higher priority among others?

The client has attempted suicide and safety precaution is needed
The client has disturbance in his body image because of the recent operation
The client is depressed because her boyfriend left her all alone
The client is thirsty and dehydrated
15. Which of the following is TRUE with regards to Client Goals?

They are specific, measurable, attainable and time bounded
They are general and broadly stated
They should answer for WHO, WHAT ACTIONS, WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES, HOW WELL and WHEN.
Example is : After discharge planning, Client demonstrated the proper psychomotor skills for insulin injection.
16. Which of the following is a NOT a correct statement of an Outcome criteria?

Ambulates 30 feet with a cane before discharge
Discusses fears and concerns regarding the surgical procedure
Demonstrates proper coughing and breathing technique after a teaching session
Reestablishes a normal pattern of elimination
17. Which of the following is a OBJECTIVE data?

Dizziness
Chest pain
Anxiety
Blue nails
18. A patient’s chart is what type of data source?

Primary
Secondary
Tertiary
Can be A and B
19. All of the following are characteristic of the Nursing process except

Dynamic
Cyclical
Universal
Intrapersonal
20. Which of the following is true about the NURSING CARE PLAN?

It is nursing centered
Rationales are supported by interventions
Verbal
Atleast 2 goals are needed for every nursing diagnosis
21. A framework for health assessment that evaluates the effects of stressors to the mind, body and environment in relation with the ability of the client to perform ADL.

Functional health framework
Head to toe framework
Body system framework
Cephalocaudal framework
22. Client has undergone Upper GI and Lower GI series. Which type of health assessment framework is used in this situation?

Functional health framework
Head to toe framework
Body system framework
Cephalocaudal framework
23. Which of the following statement is true regarding temperature?

Oral temperature is more accurate than rectal temperature
The bulb used in Rectal temperature reading is pear shaped or round
The older the person, the higher his BMR
When the client is swimming, BMR Decreases
24. A type of heat loss that occurs when the heat is dissipated by air current

Convection
Conduction
Radiation
Evaporation
25. Which of the following is TRUE about temperature?

The highest temperature usually occurs later in a day, around 8 P.M to 12 M.N
The lowest temperature is usually in the Afternoon, Around 12 P.M
Thyroxin decreases body temperature
Elderly people are risk for hyperthermia due to the absence of fats, Decreased thermoregulatory control and sedentary lifestyle.
26. Hyperpyrexia is a condition in which the temperature is greater than

40 degree Celsius
39 degree Celsius
100 degree Fahrenheit
105.8 degree Fahrenheit
27. Tympanic temperature is taken from John, A client who was brought recently into the ER due to frequent barking cough. The temperature reads 37.9 Degrees Celsius. As a nurse, you conclude that this temperature is

High
Low
At the low end of the normal range
At the high end of the normal range
28. John has a fever of 38.5 Deg. Celsius. It surges at around 40 Degrees and go back to 38.5 degrees 6 times today in a typical pattern. What kind of fever is John having?

Relapsing
Intermittent
Remittent
Constant
29. John has a fever of 39.5 degrees 2 days ago, But yesterday, he has a normal temperature of 36.5 degrees. Today, his temperature surges to 40 degrees. What type of fever is John having?

Relapsing
Intermittent
Remittent
Constant
30. John’s temperature 10 hours ago is a normal 36.5 degrees. 4 hours ago, He has a fever with a temperature of 38.9 Degrees. Right now, his temperature is back to normal. Which of the following best describe the fever john is having?

Relapsing
Intermittent
Remittent
Constant
31. The characteristic fever in Dengue Virus is characterized as:

Tricyclic
Bicyclic
Biphasic
Triphasic
32. When John has been given paracetamol, his fever was brought down dramatically from 40 degrees Celsius to 36.7 degrees in a matter of 10 minutes. The nurse would assess this event as:

The goal of reducing john’s fever has been met with full satisfaction of the outcome criteria
The desired goal has been partially met
The goal is not completely met
The goal has been met but not with the desired outcome criteria
33. What can you expect from Marianne, who is currently at the ONSET stage of fever?

Hot, flushed skin
Increase thirst
Convulsion
Pale,cold skin
34. Marianne is now at the Defervescence stage of the fever, which of the following is expected?

Delirium
Goose flesh
Cyanotic nail beds
Sweating
35. Considered as the most accessible and convenient method for temperature taking

Oral
Rectal
Tympanic
Axillary
36. Considered as Safest and most non invasive method of temperature taking

Oral
Rectal
Tympanic
Axillary
37. Which of the following is NOT a contraindication in taking ORAL temperature?

Quadriplegic
Presence of NGT
Dyspnea
Nausea and Vomitting
38. Which of the following is a contraindication in taking RECTAL temperature?

Unconscious
Neutropenic
NPO
Very young children
39. How long should the Rectal Thermometer be inserted to the clients anus?

1 to 2 inches
5 to 1.5 inches
3 to 5 inches
2 to 3 inches
40. In cleaning the thermometer after use, The direction of the cleaning to follow Medical Asepsis is :

From bulb to stem
From stem to bulb
From stem to stem
From bulb to bulb
41. How long should the thermometer stay in the Client’s Axilla?

3 minutes
4 minutes
7 minutes
10 minutes
42. Which of the following statement is TRUE about pulse?

Young person have higher pulse than older persons
Males have higher pulse rate than females after puberty
Digitalis has a positive chronotropic effect
In lying position, Pulse rate is higher
43. The following are correct actions when taking radial pulse except:

Put the palms downward
Use the thumb to palpate the artery
Use two or three fingers to palpate the pulse at the inner wrist
Assess the pulse rate, rhythm, volume and bilateral quality
44. The difference between the systolic and diastolic pressure is termed as

Apical rate
Cardiac rate
Pulse deficit
Pulse pressure
45. Which of the following completely describes PULSUS PARADOXICUS?

A greater-than-normal increase in systolic blood pressure with inspiration
A greater-than-normal decrease in systolic blood pressure with inspiration
Pulse is paradoxically low when client is in standing position and high when supine.
Pulse is paradoxically high when client is in standing position and low when supine.
46. Which of the following is TRUE about respiration?

I:E 2:1
I:E : 4:3
I:E 1:1
I:E 1:2
47. Contains the pneumotaxic and the apneutic centers

Medulla oblongata
Pons
Carotid bodies
Aortic bodies
48. Which of the following is responsible for deep and prolonged inspiration

Medulla oblongata
Pons
Carotid bodies
Aortic bodies
49. Which of the following is responsible for the rhythm and quality of breathing?

Medulla oblongata
Pons
Carotid bodies
Aortic bodies
50. The primary respiratory center

Medulla oblongata
Pons
Carotid bodies
Aortic bodies
51. Which of the following is TRUE about the mechanism of action of the Aortic and Carotid bodies?

If the BP is elevated, the RR increases
If the BP is elevated, the RR decreases
Elevated BP leads to Metabolic alkalosis
Low BP leads to Metabolic acidosis
52. All of the following factors correctly influence respiration except one. Which of the following is incorrect?

Hydrocodone decreases RR
Stress increases RR
Increase temperature of the environment, Increase RR
Increase altitude, Increase RR
53. When does the heart receives blood from the coronary artery?

Systole
Diastole
When the valves opens
When the valves closes
54. Which of the following is more life threatening?

BP = 180/100
BP = 160/120
BP = 90/60
BP = 80/50
55. Refers to the pressure when the ventricles are at rest

Diastole
Systole
Preload
Pulse pressure
56. Which of the following is TRUE about the blood pressure determinants?

Hypervolemia lowers BP
Hypervolemia increases GFR
HCT of 70% might decrease or increase BP
Epinephrine decreases BP
57. Which of the following do not correctly correlates the increase BP of Ms. Aida, a 70 year old diabetic?

Females, after the age 65 tends to have lower BP than males
Disease process like Diabetes increase BP
BP is highest in the morning, and lowest during the night
Africans, have a greater risk of hypertension than Caucasian and Asians.
58. How many minutes are allowed to pass if the client had engaged in strenuous activities, smoked or ingested caffeine before taking his/her BP?

5
10
15
30
59. Too narrow cuff will cause what change in the Client’s BP?

True high reading
True low reading
False high reading
False low reading
60. Which is a preferable arm for BP taking?

An arm with the most contraptions
The left arm of the client with a CVA affecting the right brain
The right arm
The left arm
61. Which of the following is INCORRECT in assessing client’s BP?

Read the mercury at the upper meniscus, preferably at the eye level to prevent error of parallax
Inflate and deflate slowly, 2-3 mmHg at a time
The sound heard during taking BP is known as KOROTKOFF sound
If the BP is taken on the left leg using the popliteal artery pressure, a BP of 160/80 is normal.
62. Which of the following is the correct interpretation of the ERROR OF PARALLAX

If the eye level is higher than the level of the meniscus, it will cause a false high reading
If the eye level is higher than the level of the meniscus, it will cause a false low reading
If the eye level is lower than the level of the meniscus, it will cause a false low reading
If the eye level is equal to that of the level of the upper meniscus, the reading is accurate
63. How many minute/s is/are allowed to pass before making a re-reading after the first one?

1
5
15
30
64. Which of the following is TRUE about the auscultation of blood pressure?

Pulse + 4 is considered as FULL
The bell of the stethoscope is use in auscultating BP
Sound produced by BP is considered as HIGH frequency sound
Pulse +1 is considered as NORMAL
65. In assessing the abdomen, Which of the following is the correct sequence of the physical assessment?

Inspection, Auscultation, Percussion, Palpation
Palpation, Auscultation, Percussion, Inspection
Inspection, Palpation, Auscultation, Percussion
Inspection, Auscultation, Palpation, Percussion
66. The sequence in examining the quadrants of the abdomen is:

RUQ,RLQ,LUQ,LLQ
RLQ,RUQ,LLQ,LUQ
RUQ,RLQ,LLQ,LUQ
RLQ,RUQ,LUQ,LLQ
67. In inspecting the abdomen, which of the following is NOT DONE?

Ask the client to void first
Knees and legs are straighten to relax the abdomen
The best position in assessing the abdomen is Dorsal recumbent
The knees and legs are externally rotated
68. Dr. Fabian De Las Santas, is about to conduct an ophthalmoscope examination. Which of the following, if done by a nurse, is a Correct preparation before the procedure?

Provide the necessary draping to ensure privacy
Open the windows, curtains and light to allow better illumination
Pour warm water over the ophthalmoscope to ensure comfort
Darken the room to provide better illumination
69. If the client is female, and the doctor is a male and the patient is about to undergo a vaginal and cervical examination, why is it necessary to have a female nurse in attendance?

To ensure that the doctor performs the procedure safely
To assist the doctor
To assess the client’s response to examination
To ensure that the procedure is done in an ethical manner
70. In palpating the client’s breast, Which of the following position is necessary for the patient to assume before the start of the procedure?

Supine
Dorsal recumbent
Sitting
Lithotomy
71. When is the best time to collect urine specimen for routine urinalysis and C/S?

Early morning
Later afternoon
Midnight
Before breakfast
72. Which of the following is among an ideal way of collecting a urine specimen for culture and sensitivity?

Use a clean container
Discard the first flow of urine to ensure that the urine is not contaminated
Collect around 30-50 ml of urine
Add preservatives, refrigerate the specimen or add ice according to the agency’s protocol
73. In a 24 hour urine specimen started Friday, 9:00 A.M, which of the following if done by a Nurse indicate a NEED for further procedural debriefing?

The nurse ask the client to urinate at 9:00 A.M, Friday and she included the urine in the 24 hour urine specimen
The nurse discards the Friday 9:00 A M urine of the client
The nurse included the Saturday 9:00 A.M urine of the client to the specimen collection
The nurse added preservatives as per protocol and refrigerates the specimen
74. This specimen is required to assess glucose levels and for the presence of albumin the the urine

Midstream clean catch urine
24 hours urine collection
Postprandial urine collection
Second voided urine
75. When should the client test his blood sugar levels for greater accuracy?

During meals
In between meals
Before meals
2 Hours after meals
76. In collecting a urine from a catheterized patient, Which of the following statement indicates an accurate performance of the procedure?

Clamp above the port for 30 to 60 minutes before drawing the urine from the port
Clamp below the port for 30 to 60 minutes before drawing the urine from the port
Clamp above the port for 5 to 10 minutes before drawing the urine from the port
Clamp below the port for 5 to 10 minutes before drawing the urine from the port
77. A community health nurse should be resourceful and meet the needs of the client. A villager ask him, Can you test my urine for glucose? Which of the following technique allows the nurse to test a client’s urine for glucose without the need for intricate instruments.

Acetic Acid test
Nitrazine paper test
Benedict’s test
Litmus paper test
78. A community health nurse is assessing client’s urine using the Acetic Acid solution. Which of the following, if done by a nurse, indicates lack of correct knowledge with the procedure?

The nurse added the Urine as the 2/3 part of the solution
The nurse heats the test tube after adding 1/3 part acetic acid
The nurse heats the test tube after adding 2/3 part of Urine
The nurse determines abnormal result if she noticed that the test tube becomes cloudy
79. Which of the following is incorrect with regards to proper urine testing using Benedict’s Solution?

Heat around 5ml of Benedict’s solution together with the urine in a test tube
Add 8 to 10 drops of urine
Heat the Benedict’s solution without the urine to check if the solution is contaminated
If the color remains BLUE, the result is POSITIVE
80. +++ Positive result after Benedicts test is depicted by what color?

Blue
Green
Yellow
Orange
81. Clinitest is used in testing the urine of a client for glucose. Which of the following, If committed by a nurse indicates error?

Specimen is collected after meals
The nurse puts 1 clinitest tablet into a test tube
She added 5 drops of urine and 10 drops of water
If the color becomes orange or red, It is considered postitive
82. Which of the following nursing intervention is important for a client scheduled to have a Guaiac Test?

Avoid turnips, radish and horseradish 3 days before procedure
Continue iron preparation to prevent further loss of Iron
Do not eat read meat 12 hours before procedure
Encourage caffeine and dark colored foods to produce accurate results
83. In collecting a routine specimen for fecalysis, Which of the following, if done by a nurse, indicates inadequate knowledge and skills about the procedure?

The nurse scoop the specimen specifically at the site with blood and mucus
She took around 1 inch of specimen or a teaspoonful
Ask the client to call her for the specimen after the client wiped off his anus with a tissue
Ask the client to defecate in a bedpan, Secure a sterile container
84. In a routine sputum analysis, Which of the following indicates proper nursing action before sputum collection?

Secure a clean container
Discard the container if the outside becomes contaminated with the sputum
Rinse the client’s mouth with Listerine after collection
Tell the client that 4 tablespoon of sputum is needed for each specimen for a routine sputum analysis
85. Who collects Blood specimen?

The nurse
Medical technologist
Physician
Physical therapist
86. David, 68 year old male client is scheduled for Serum Lipid analysis. Which of the following health teaching is important to ensure accurate reading?

Tell the patient to eat fatty meals 3 days prior to the procedure
NPO for 12 hours pre procedure
Ask the client to drink 1 glass of water 1 hour prior to the procedure
Tell the client that the normal serum lipase level is 50 to 140 U/L
87. The primary factor responsible for body heat production is the

Metabolism
Release of thyroxin
Muscle activity
Stress
88. The heat regulating center is found in the

Medulla oblongata
Thalamus
Hypothalamus
Pons
89. A process of heat loss which involves the transfer of heat from one surface to another is

Radiation
Conduction
Convection
Evaporation
90. Which of the following is a primary factor that affects the BP?

Obesity
Age
Stress
Gender
91. The following are social data about the client except

Patient’s lifestyle
Religious practices
Family home situation
Usual health status
92. The best position for any procedure that involves vaginal and cervical examination is

Dorsal recumbent
Side lying
Supine
Lithotomy
93. Measure the leg circumference of a client with bipedal edema is best done in what position?

Dorsal recumbent
Sitting
Standing
Supine
94. In palpating the client’s abdomen, Which of the following is the best position for the client to assume?

Dorsal recumbent
Side lying
Supine
Lithotomy
95. Rectal examination is done with a client in what position?

Dorsal recumbent
Sims position
Supine
Lithotomy
96. Which of the following is a correct nursing action when collecting urine specimen from a client with an Indwelling catheter?

Collect urine specimen from the drainage bag
Detach catheter from the connecting tube and draw the specimen from the port
Use sterile syringe to aspirate urine specimen from the drainage port
Insert the syringe straight to the port to allow self sealing of the port
97. Which of the following is inappropriate in collecting mid stream clean catch urine specimen for urine analysis?

Collect early in the morning, First voided specimen
Do perineal care before specimen collection
Collect 5 to 10 ml for urine
Discard the first flow of the urine
98. When palpating the client’s neck for lymphadenopathy, where should the nurse position himself?

At the client’s back
At the client’s right side
At the client’s left side
In front of a sitting client
99. Which of the following is the best position for the client to assume if the back is to be examined by the nurse?

Standing
Sitting
Side lying
Prone
100. In assessing the client’s chest, which position best show chest expansion as well as its movements?

Sitting
Prone
Sidelying
Supine