1. Which one of the following is NOT a function of the Upper airway?

For clearance mechanism such as coughing
Transport gases to the lower airways
Warming, Filtration and Humidification of inspired air
Protect the lower airway from foreign mater
2. It is the hair the lines the vestibule which function as a filtering mechanism for foreign objects

Cilia
Nares
Carina
Vibrissae
3. This is the paranasal sinus found between the eyes and the nose that extends backward into the skull

Ehtmoid
Sphenoid
Maxillary
Frontal
4. Which paranasal sinus is found over the eyebrow?

Ehtmoid
Sphenoid
Maxillary
Frontal
5. Gene De Vonne Katrouchuacheulujiki wants to change her surname to something shorter, The court denied her request which depresses her and find herself binge eating. She accidentally aspirate a large piece of nut and it passes the carina. Probabilty wise, Where will the nut go?

Right main stem bronchus
Left main stem bronchus
Be dislodged in between the carina
Be blocked by the closed epiglottis
6. Which cell secretes mucus that help protect the lungs by trapping debris in the respiratory tract?

Type I pneumocytes
Type II pneumocytes
Goblet cells
Adipose cells
7. How many lobes are there in the RIGHT LUNG?

One
Two
Three
Four
8. The presence of the liver causes which anatomical difference of the Kidneys and the Lungs?

Left kidney slightly lower, Left lung slightly shorter
Left kidney slightly higher, Left lung slightly shorter
Right kidney lower, Right lung shorter
Right kidney higher, Right lung shorter
9. Surfactant is produced by what cells in the alveoli?

Type I pneumocytes
Type II pneumocytes
Goblet cells
Adipose cells
10. The normal L:S Ratio to consider the newborn baby viable is

1:2
2:1
3:1
1:3
11. Refers to the extra air that can be inhaled beyond the normal tidal volume

Inspiratory reserve volume
Expiratory reserve volume
Functional residual capacity
Residual volume
12. This is the amount of air remained in the lungs after a forceful expiration

Inspiratory reserve volume
Expiratory reserve volume
Functional residual capacity
Residual volume
13. Casssandra, A 22 year old grade Agnostic, Asked you, how many spikes of bones are there in my ribs? Your best response is which of the following?

We have 13 pairs of ribs Cassandra
We have 12 pairs of ribs Cassandra
Humans have 16 pairs of ribs, and that was noted by Vesalius in 1543
Humans have 8 pairs of ribs. 4 of which are floating
14. Which of the following is considered as the main muscle of respiration?

Lungs
Intercostal Muscles
Diaphragm
Pectoralis major
15. Cassandra asked you : How many air is there in the oxygen and how many does human requires? Which of the following is the best response :

God is good, Man requires 21% of oxygen and we have 21% available in our air
Man requires 16% of oxygen and we have 35% available in our air
Man requires 10% of oxygen and we have 50% available in our air
Human requires 21% of oxygen and we have 21% available in our air
16. Which of the following is TRUE about Expiration?

A passive process
The length of which is half of the length of Inspiration
Stridor is commonly heard during expiration
Requires energy to be carried out
17. Which of the following is TRUE in postural drainage?

Patient assumes position for 10 to 15 minutes
Should last only for 60 minutes
Done best P.C
An independent nursing action
18. All but one of the following is a purpose of steam inhalation

Mucolytic
Warm and humidify air
Administer medications
Promote bronchoconstriction
19. Which of the following is NOT TRUE in steam inhalation?

It is a dependent nursing action
Spout is put 12-18 inches away from the nose
Render steam inhalation for atleast 60 minutes
Cover the client’s eye with wash cloth to prevent irritation
20. When should a nurse suction a client?

As desired
As needed
Every 1 hour
Every 4 hours
21. Ernest Arnold Hamilton, a 60 year old American client was mobbed by teen gangsters near New york, Cubao. He was rushed to John John Hopio Medical Center and was Unconscious. You are his nurse and you are to suction his secretions. In which position should you place Mr. Hamilton?

High fowlers
Semi fowlers
Prone
Side lying
22. You are about to set the suction pressure to be used to Mr. Hamilton. You are using a Wall unit suction machine. How much pressure should you set the valve before suctioning Mr. Hamilton?

50-95 mmHg
200-350 mmHg
100-120 mmHg
10-15 mmHg
23. The wall unit is not functioning; You then try to use the portable suction equipment available. How much pressure of suction equipment is needed to prevent trauma to mucus membrane and air ways in case of portable suction units?

2-5 mmHg
5-10 mmHg
10-15 mmHg
15-25 mmHg
24. There are four catheter sizes available for use, which one of these should you use for Mr. Hamilton?

Fr. 18
Fr. 12
Fr. 10
Fr, 5
25. Which of the following, if done by the nurse, indicates incompetence during suctioning an unconscious client?

Measure the length of the suction catheter to be inserted by measuring from the tip of the nose, to the earlobe, to the xiphoid process
Use KY Jelly if suctioning nasopharyngeal secretion
The maximum time of suctioning should not exceed 15 seconds
Allow 30 seconds interval between suctioning
26. Which of the following is the initial sign of hypoxemia in an adult client? 1.Tachypnea, 2.Tachycardia, 3.Cyanosis, 4.Pallor, 5.Irritability, 6.Flaring of Nares
A. 1,2
B. 2,5
C. 2,6
D. 3,4
27. Which method of oxygenation least likely produces anxiety and apprehension?

Nasal Cannula
Simple Face mask
Non Rebreather mask
Partial Rebreather mask
28. Which of the following oxygen delivery method can deliver 100% Oxygen at 15 LPM?

Nasal Cannula
Simple Face mask
Non Rebreather mask
Partial Rebreather mask
29. Which of the following is not true about OXYGEN?

Oxygen is odorless, tasteless and colorless gas.
Oxygen can irritate mucus membrane
Oxygen supports combustion
Excessive oxygen administration results in respiratory acidosis
30. Roberto San Andres, A new nurse in the hospital is about to administer oxygen on patient with Respiratory distress. As his senior nurse, you should intervene if Roberto will:

Uses venture mask in oxygen administration
Put a non rebreather mask in the patient before opening the oxygen source
Use a partial rebreather mask to deliver oxygen
Check for the doctor’s order for Oxygen administration
31. Which of the following will alert the nurse as an early sign of hypoxia?

Client is tired and dyspneic
The client is coughing out blood
The client’s heart rate is 50 BPM
Client is frequently turning from side to side
32. Miguelito de balboa, An OFW presents at the admission with an A:P Diameter ratio of 2:1, Which of the following associated finding should the nurse expect?

Pancytopenia
Anemia
Fingers are Club-like
Hematocrit of client is decreased
33. The best method of oxygen administration for client with COPD uses:

Cannula
Simple Face mask
Non rebreather mask
Venturi mask
34. Mang dagul, a 50 year old chronic smoker was brought to the E.R because of difficulty in breathing. Pleural effusion was the diagnosis and CTT was ordered. What does C.T.T Stands for?

Chest tube thoracotomy
Chest tube thoracostomy
Closed tube thoracotomy
Closed tube thoracostmy
35. Where will the CTT be inserted if we are to drain fluids accumulated in Mang dagul’s pleura?

2nd ICS
4th ICS
5th ICS
8th ICS
36. There is a continuous bubbling in the water sealed drainage system with suction. And oscillation is observed. As a nurse, what should you do?

Consider this as normal findings
Notify the physician
Check for tube leak
Prepare a petrolatum gauze dressing
37. Which of the following is true about nutrition?

It is the process in which food are broken down, for the body to use in growth and development
It is a process in which digested proteins, fats, minerals, vitamins and carbohydrates are transported into the circulation
It is a chemical process that occurs in the cell that allows for energy production, energy use, growth and tissue repair
It is the study of nutrients and the process in which they are use by the body
38. The majority of the digestion processes take place in the

Mouth
Small intestine
Large intestine
Stomach
39. All of the following is true about digestion that occurs in the Mouth except

It is where the digestion process starts
Mechanical digestion is brought about by mastication
The action of ptyalin or the salivary tyrpsin breaks down starches into maltose
Deglutition occurs after food is broken down into small pieces and well mixed with saliva
40. Which of the following foods lowers the cardiac sphincter pressure?

Roast beef, Steamed cauliflower and Rice
Orange juice, Non fat milk, Dry crackers
Decaffeinated coffee, Sky flakes crackers, Suman
Coffee with coffee mate, Bacon and Egg
41. Where does the digestion of carbohydrates start?

Mouth
Esophagus
Small intestine
Stomach
42. Protein and Fat digestion begins where?

Mouth
Esophagus
Small intestine
Stomach
43. All but one is true about digestion that occurs in the Stomach

Carbohydrates are the fastest to be digested, in about an hour
Fat is the slowest to be digested, in about 5 hours
HCl inhibits absorption of Calcium in the gastric mucosa
HCl converts pepsinogen to pepsin, which starts the complex process of protein digestion
44. Which of the following is NOT an enzyme secreted by the small intestine?

Sucrase
Enterokinase
Amylase
Enterokinase
45. The hormone secreted by the Small intestine that stimulates the production of pancreatic juice which primarily aids in buffering the acidic bolus passed by the Stomach

Enterogastrone
Cholecystokinin
Pancreozymin
Enterokinase
46. When the duodenal enzyme sucrase acts on SUCROSE, which 2 monosaccharides are formed?

Galactose + Galactose
Glucose + Fructose
Glucose + Galactose
Fructose + Fructose
47. This is the enzyme secreted by the pancrease that completes the protein digestion

Trypsin
Enterokinase
Enterogastrone
Amylase
48. The end product of protein digestion or the “Building blocks of Protein” is what we call

Nucleotides
Fatty acids
Glucose
Amino Acids
49. Enzyme secreted by the small intestine after it detects a bolus of fatty food. This will contract the gallbladder to secrete bile and relax the sphincter of Oddi to aid in the emulsification of fats and its digestion.

Lipase
Amylase
Cholecystokinin
Pancreozymin
50. Which of the following is not true about the Large Intestine?

It absorbs around 1 L of water making the feces around 75% water and 25% solid
The stool formed in the transverse colon is not yet well formed
It is a sterile body cavity
It is called large intestine because it is longer than the small intestine
51. This is the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 kg water to 1 degree Celsius

Calorie
Joules
Metabolism
Basal metabolic rate
52. Assuming a cup of rice provides 50 grams of carbohydrates. How many calories are there in that cup of rice?

150 calories
200 calories
250 calories
400 calories
53. An average adult filipino requires how many calories in a day?

1,000 calories
1,500 calories
2,000 calories
2,500 calories
54. Which of the following is true about an individual’s caloric needs?

All individual have the same caloric needs
Females in general have higher BMR and therefore, require more calories
During cold weather, people need more calories due to increase BMR
Dinner should be the heaviest meal of the day
55. Among the following people, who requires the greatest caloric intake?

An individual in a long state of gluconeogenesis
An individual in a long state of glycogenolysis
A pregnant individual
An adolescent with a BMI of 25
56. Which nutrient deficiency is associated with the development of Pellagra, Dermatitis and Diarrhea?

Vitamin B1
Vitamin B2
Vitamin B3
Vitamin B6
57. Which Vitamin is not given in conjunction with the intake of LEVODOPA in cases of Parkinson’s Disease due to the fact that levodopa increases its level in the body?

Vitamin B1
Vitamin B2
Vitamin B3
Vitamin B6
58. A vitamin taken in conjunction with ISONIAZID to prevent peripheral neuritis

Vitamin B1
Vitamin B2
Vitamin B3
Vitamin B6
59. The inflammation of the Lips, Palate and Tongue is associated in the deficiency of this vitamin

Vitamin B1
Vitamin B2
Vitamin B3
Vitamin B6
60. Beri beri is caused by the deficiency of which Vitamin?

Vitamin B1
Vitamin B2
Vitamin B3
Vitamin C
61. Which of the following is the best source of Vitamin E?

Green leafy vegetables
Vegetable oil
Fortified Milk
Fish liver oil
62. Among the following foods, which food should you emphasize giving on an Alcoholic client?

Pork liver and organ meats, Pork
Red meat, Eggs and Dairy products
Green leafy vegetables, Yellow vegetables, Cantaloupe and Dairy products
Chicken, Peanuts, Bananas, Wheat germs and yeasts
63. Which food group should you emphasize giving on a pregnant mother in first trimester to prevent neural tube defects?

Broccoli, Guava, Citrus fruits, Tomatoes
Butter, Sardines, Tuna, Salmon, Egg yolk
Wheat germ, Vegetable Oil, soybeans, corn, peanuts
Organ meats, Green leafy vegetables, Liver, Eggs
64. A client taking Coumadin is to be educated on his diet. As a nurse, which of the following food should you instruct the client to avoid?

Spinach, Green leafy vegetables, Cabbage, Liver
Salmon, Sardines, Tuna
Butter, Egg yolk, breakfast cereals
Banana, Yeast, Wheat germ, Chicken
65. Vitamin E plus this mineral works as one of the best anti oxidant in the body according to the latest research. They are combined with 5 Alpha reductase inhibitor to reduce the risk of acquiring prostate cancer

Zinc
Iron
Selenium
Vanadium
66. Incident of prostate cancer is found to have been reduced on a population exposed in tolerable amount of sunlight. Which vitamin is associated with this phenomenon?

Vitamin A
Vitamin B
Vitamin C
Vitamin D
67. Micronutrients are those nutrients needed by the body in a very minute amount. Which of the following vitamin is considered as a MICRONUTRIENT

Phosphorous
Iron
Calcium
Sodium
68. Deficiency of this mineral results in tetany, osteomalacia, osteoporosis and rickets.

Vitamin D
Iron
Calcium
Sodium
69. Among the following foods, which has the highest amount of potassium per area of their meat?

Cantaloupe
Avocado
Raisin
Banana
70. A client has HEMOSIDEROSIS. Which of the following drug would you expect to be given to the client?

Acetazolamide
Deferoxamine
Calcium EDTA
Activated charcoal
71. Which of the following provides the richest source of Iron per area of their meat?

Pork meat
Lean read meat
Pork liver
Green mongo
72. Which of the following is considered the best indicator of nutritional status of an individual?

Height
Weight
Arm muscle circumference
BMI
73. Jose Miguel, a 50 year old business man is 6’0 Tall and weights 179 lbs. As a nurse, you know that Jose Miguel is :

Overweight
Underweight
Normal
Obese
74. Jose Miguel is a little bit nauseous. Among the following beverages, Which could help relieve JM’s nausea?

Coke
Sprite
Mirinda
Orange Juice or Lemon Juice
75. Which of the following is the first sign of dehydration?

Tachycardia
Restlessness
Thirst
Poor skin turgor
76. What Specific gravity lab result is compatible with a dehydrated client?

1.007
1.020
1.039
1.029
77. Which hematocrit value is expected in a dehydrated male client?

67%
50%
36%
45%
78. Which of the following statement by a client with prolonged vomiting indicates the initial onset of hypokalemia?

My arm feels so weak
I felt my heart beat just right now
My face muscle is twitching
Nurse, help! My legs are cramping
79. Which of the following is not an anti-emetic?

Marinol
Dramamine
Benadryl
Alevaire
80. Which is not a clear liquid diet?

Hard candy
Gelatin
Coffee with Coffee mate
Bouillon
81. Which of the following is included in a full liquid diet?

Popsicles
Pureed vegetable meat
Pineapple juice with pulps
Mashed potato
82. Which food is included in a BLAND DIET?

Steamed broccoli
Creamed potato
Spinach in garlic
Sweet potato
83. Which of the following if done by the nurse, is correct during NGT Insertion?

Use an oil based lubricant
Measure the amount of the tube to be inserted from the Tip of the nose, to the earlobe, to the xiphoid process
Soak the NGT in a basin of ice water to facilitate easy insertion
Check the placement of the tube by introducing 10 cc of sterile water and auscultating for bubbling sound
84. Which of the following is the BEST method in assessing for the correct placement of the NGT?

X-Ray
Immerse tip of the tube in water to check for bubbles produced
Aspirating gastric content to check if the content is acidic
Instilling air in the NGT and listening for a gurgling sound at the epigastric area
85. A terminally ill cancer patient is scheduled for an NGT feeding today. How should you position the patient?

Semi fowlers in bed
Bring the client into a chair
Slightly elevated right side lying position
Supine in bed
86. A client is scheduled for NGT Feeding. Checking the residual volume, you determined that he has 40 cc residual from the last feeding. You reinstill the 40 cc of residual volume and added the 250 cc of feeding ordered by the doctor. You then instill 60 cc of water to clear the lumen and the tube. How much will you put in the client’s chart as input?

250 cc
290 cc
350 cc
310 cc
87. Which of the following if done by a nurse indicates deviation from the standards of NGT feeding?

Do not give the feeding and notify the doctor of residual of the last feeding is greater than or equal to 50 ml
Height of the feeding should be 12 inches about the tube point of insertion to allow slow introduction of feeding
Ask the client to position in supine position immediately after feeding to prevent dumping syndrome
Clamp the NGT before all of the water is instilled to prevent air entry in the stomach
88. What is the most common problem in TUBE FEEDING?

Diarrhea
Infection
Hyperglycemia
Vomiting
89. Which of the following is TRUE in colostomy feeding?

Hold the syringe 18 inches above the stoma and administer the feeding slowly
Pour 30 ml of water before and after feeding administration
Insert the ostomy feeding tube 1 inch towards the stoma
A Pink stoma means that circulation towards the stoma is all well
90. A client with TPN suddenly develops tremors, dizziness, weakness and diaphoresis. The client said “I feel weak” You saw that his TPN is already empty and another TPN is scheduled to replace the previous one but its provision is already 3 hours late. Which of the following is the probable complication being experienced by the client?

Hyperglycemia
Hypoglycemia
Infection
Fluid overload
91. To assess the adequacy of food intake, which of the following assessment parameters is best used?

Food likes and dislikes
Regularity of meal times
3 day diet recall
Eating style and habits
92. The vomiting center is found in the

Medulla Oblongata
Pons
Hypothalamus
Cerebellum
93. The most threatening complication of vomiting in client’s with stroke is

Aspiration
Dehydration
Fluid and electrolyte imbalance
Malnutrition
94. Which among this food is the richest source of Iron?

Ampalaya
Broccoli
Mongo
Malunggay leaves
95. Which of the following is a good source of Vitamin A?

Egg yolk
Liver
Fish
Peanuts
96. The most important nursing action before gastrostomy feeding is

Check V/S
Assess for patency of the tube
Measure residual feeding
Check the placement of the tube
97. The primary advantage of gastrostomy feeding is

Ensures adequate nutrition
It prevents aspiration
Maintains Gastro esophageal sphincter integrity
Minimizes fluid-electrolyte imbalance
98. What is the BMI Of Budek, weighing 120 lbs and has a height of 5 feet 7 inches.

20
19
15
25
99. Which finding is consistent with PERNICIOUS ANEMIA?

Strawberry tongue
Currant Jelly stool
Beefy red tongue
Pale [ HYPOCHROMIC ] RBC
100. The nurse is browsing the chart of the patient and notes a normal serum lipase level. Which of the following is a normal serum lipase value?

10 U/L
100 U/L
200 U/L
350 U/L