1. Jake is complaining of shortness of breath. The nurse assesses his respiratory rate to be 30 breaths per minute and documents that Jake is tachypneic. The nurse understands that tachypnea means:

Pulse rate greater than 100 beats per minute
Blood pressure of 140/90
Respiratory rate greater than 20 breaths per minute
Frequent bowel sounds
2. The nurse listens to Mrs. Sullen’s lungs and notes a hissing sound or musical sound. The nurse documents this as:

Wheezes
Rhonchi
Gurgles
Vesicular
3. The nurse in charge measures a patient’s temperature at 101 degrees F. What is the equivalent centigrade temperature?

36.3 degrees C
37.95 degrees C
40.03 degrees C
38.01 degrees C
4. Which approach to problem solving tests any number of solutions until one is found that works for that particular problem?

Intuition
Routine
Scientific method
Trial and error
5. What is the order of the nursing process?

Assessing, diagnosing, implementing, evaluating, planning
Diagnosing, assessing, planning, implementing, evaluating
Assessing, diagnosing, planning, implementing, evaluating
Planning, evaluating, diagnosing, assessing, implementing
6. During the planning phase of the nursing process, which of the following is the outcome?

Nursing history
Nursing notes
Nursing care plan
Nursing diagnosis
7. What is an example of a subjective data?

Heart rate of 68 beats per minute
Yellowish sputum
Client verbalized, “I feel pain when urinating.”
Noisy breathing
8. Which expected outcome is correctly written?

“The patient will feel less nauseated in 24 hours.”
“The patient will eat the right amount of food daily.”
“The patient will identify all the high-salt food from a prepared list by discharge.”
“The patient will have enough sleep.”
9. Which of the following behaviors by Nurse Jane Robles demonstrates that she understands well th elements of effecting charting?

She writes in the chart using a no. 2 pencil.
She noted: appetite is good this afternoon.
She signs on the medication sheet after administering the medication.
She signs her charting as follow: J.R
10. What is the disadvantage of computerized documentation of the nursing process?

Accuracy
Legibility
Concern for privacy
Rapid communication
11. The theorist who believes that adaptation and manipulation of stressors are related to foster change is:

Dorothea Orem
Sister Callista Roy
Imogene King
Virginia Henderson
12. Formulating a nursing diagnosis is a joint function of:

Patient and relatives
Nurse and patient
Doctor and family
Nurse and doctor
13. Mrs. Caperlac has been diagnosed to have hypertension since 10 years ago. Since then, she had maintained low sodium, low fat diet, to control her blood pressure. This practice is viewed as:

Cultural belief
Personal belief
Health belief
Superstitious belief
14. Becky is on NPO since midnight as preparation for blood test. Adreno-cortical response is activated. Which of the following is an expected response?

Low blood pressure
Warm, dry skin
Decreased serum sodium levels
Decreased urine output
15. What nursing action is appropriate when obtaining a sterile urine specimen from an indwelling catheter to prevent infection?

Use sterile gloves when obtaining urine.
Open the drainage bag and pour out the urine.
Disconnect the catheter from the tubing and get urine.
Aspirate urine from the tubing port using a sterile syringe.
16. A client is receiving 115 ml/hr of continuous IVF. The nurse notices that the venipuncture site is red and swollen. Which of the following interventions would the nurse perform first?

Stop the infusion
Call the attending physician
Slow that infusion to 20 ml/hr
Place a clod towel on the site
17. The nurse enters the room to give a prescribed medication but the patient is inside the bathroom. What should the nurse do?

Leave the medication at the bedside and leave the room.
After few minutes, return to that patient’s room and do not leave until the patient takes the medication.
Instruct the patient to take the medication and leave it at the bedside.
Wait for the patient to return to bed and just leave the medication at the bedside.
18. Which of the following is inappropriate nursing action when administering NGT feeding?

Place the feeding 20 inches above the pint if insertion of NGT.
Introduce the feeding slowly.
Instill 60ml of water into the NGT after feeding.
Assist the patient in fowler’s position.
19. A female patient is being discharged after thyroidectomy. After providing the medication teaching. The nurse asks the patient to repeat the instructions. The nurse is performing which professional role?

Manager
Caregiver
Patient advocate
Educator
20. Which data would be of greatest concern to the nurse when completing the nursing assessment of a 68-year-old woman hospitalized due to Pneumonia?

Oriented to date, time and place
Clear breath sounds
Capillary refill greater than 3 seconds and buccal cyanosis
Hemoglobin of 13 g/dl
21. During a change-of-shift report, it would be important for the nurse relinquishing responsibility for care of the patient to communicate. Which of the following facts to the nurse assuming responsibility for care of the patient?

That the patient verbalized, “My headache is gone.”
That the patient’s barium enema performed 3 days ago was negative
Patient’s NGT was removed 2 hours ago
Patient’s family came for a visit this morning.
22. Which statement is the most appropriate goal for a nursing diagnosis of diarrhea?

“The patient will experience decreased frequency of bowel elimination.”
“The patient will take anti-diarrheal medication.”
“The patient will give a stool specimen for laboratory examinations.”
“The patient will save urine for inspection by the nurse.
23. Which of the following is the most important purpose of planning care with this patient?

Development of a standardized NCP.
Expansion of the current taxonomy of nursing diagnosis
Making of individualized patient care
Incorporation of both nursing and medical diagnoses in patient care
24. Using Maslow’s hierarchy of basic human needs, which of the following nursing diagnoses has the highest priority?

Ineffective breathing pattern related to pain, as evidenced by shortness of breath.
Anxiety related to impending surgery, as evidenced by insomnia.
Risk of injury related to autoimmune dysfunction
Impaired verbal communication related to tracheostomy, as evidenced by inability to speak.
25. When performing an abdominal examination, the patient should be in a supine position with the head of the bed at what position?

30 degrees
90 degrees
45 degrees
0 degree
1. A patient is wearing a soft wrist-safety device. Which of the following nursing assessment is considered abnormal?

Palpable radial pulse
Palpable ulnar pulse
Capillary refill within 3 seconds
Bluish fingernails, cool and pale fingers
2. Pia’s serum sodium level is 150 mEq/L. Which of the following food items does the nurse instruct Pia to avoid?

broccoli
sardines
cabbage
tomatoes
3. Jason, 3 years old vomited. His mom stated, “He vomited 6 ounces of his formula this morning.” This statement is an example of:

objective data from a secondary source
objective data from a primary source
subjective data from a primary source
subjective data from a secondary source
4. Which of the following is a nursing diagnosis?

Hypethermia
Diabetes Mellitus
Angina
Chronic Renal Failure
5. What is the characteristic of the nursing process?

stagnant
inflexible
asystematic
goal-oriented
6. A skin lesion which is fluid-filled, less than 1 cm in size is called:

papule
vesicle
bulla
macule
7. During application of medication into the ear, which of the following is inappropriate nursing action?

In an adult, pull the pinna upward.
Instill the medication directly into the tympanic membrane.
Warm the medication at room or body temperature.
Press the tragus of the ear a few times to assist flow of medication into the ear canal.
8. Which of the following is appropriate nursing intervention for a client who is grieving over the death of her child?

Tell her not to cry and it will be better.
Provide opportunity to the client to tell their story.
Encourage her to accept or to replace the lost person.
Discourage the client in expressing her emotions.
9. It is the gradual decrease of the body’s temperature after death.

livor mortis
rigor mortis
algor mortis
none of the above
10. When performing an admission assessment on a newly admitted patient, the nurse percusses resonance. The nurse knows that resonance heard on percussion is most commonly heard over which organ?

thigh
liver
intestine
lung
11. The nurse is aware that Bell’s palsy affects which cranial nerve?

2nd CN (Optic)
3rd CN (Occulomotor)
4th CN (Trochlear)
7th CN (Facial)
12. Prolonged deficiency of Vitamin B9 leads to:

scurvy
pellagra
megaloblastic anemia
pernicious anemia
13. Nurse Cherry is teaching a 72 year old patient about a newly prescribed medication. What could cause a geriatric patient to have difficulty retaining knowledge about the newly prescribed medication?

Absence of family support
Decreased sensory functions
Patient has no interest on learning
Decreased plasma drug levels
14. When assessing a patient’s level of consciousness, which type of nursing intervention is the nurse performing?

Independent
Dependent
Collaborative
Professional
15. Claire is admitted with a diagnosis of chronic shoulder pain. By definition, the nurse understands that the patient has had pain for more than:

3 months
6 months
9 months
1 year
16. Which of the following statements regarding the nursing process is true?

It is useful on outpatient settings.
It progresses in separate, unrelated steps.
It focuses on the patient, not the nurse.
It provides the solution to all patient health problems.
17. Which of the following is considered significant enough to require immediate communication to another member of the health care team?

Weight loss of 3 lbs in a 120 lb female patient.
Diminished breath sounds in patient with previously normal breath sounds
Patient stated, “I feel less nauseated.”
Change of heart rate from 70 to 83 beats per minute.
18. To assess the adequacy of food intake, which of the following assessment parameters is best used?

food preferences
regularity of meal times
3-day diet recall
eating style and habits
19. Van Fajardo is a 55 year old who was admitted to the hospital with newly diagnosed hepatitis. The nurse is doing a patient teaching with Mr. Fajardo. What kind of role does the nurse assume?

talker
teacher
thinker
doer
20. When providing a continuous enteral feeding, which of the following action is essential for the nurse to do?

Place the client on the left side of the bed.
Attach the feeding bag to the current tubing.
Elevate the head of the bed.
Cold the formula before administering it.
21. Kussmaul’s breathing is;

Shallow breaths interrupted by apnea.
Prolonged gasping inspiration followed by a very short, usually inefficient expiration.
Marked rhythmic waxing and waning of respirations from very deep to very shallow breathing and temporary apnea.
Increased rate and depth of respiration.
22. Presty has terminal cancer and she refuses to believe that loss is happening ans she assumes artificial cheerfulness. What stage of grieving is she in?

depression
bargaining
denial
acceptance
23. Immunization for healthy babies and preschool children is an example of what level of preventive health care?

Primary
Secondary
Tertiary
Curative
24. Which is an example of a subjective data?

Temperature of 38 0C
Vomiting for 3 days
Productive cough
Patient stated, “My arms still hurt.”
25. The nurse is assessing the endocrine system. Which organ is part of the endocrine system?

Heart
Sinus
Thyroid
Thymus