21. Nurse Michelle witnesses a female client sustain a fall and suspects that the leg may be broken. The nurse takes which priority action?

Takes a set of vital signs.
Call the radiology department for X-ray.
Reassure the client that everything will be alright.
Immobilize the leg before moving the client.
22.A male client is being transferred to the nursing unit for admission after receiving a radium implant for bladder cancer. The nurse in-charge would take which priority action in the care of this client?

Place client on reverse isolation.
Admit the client into a private room.
Encourage the client to take frequent rest periods.
Encourage family and friends to visit.
23.A newly admitted female client was diagnosed with agranulocytosis. The nurse formulates which priority nursing diagnosis?

Constipation
Diarrhea
Risk for infection
Deficient knowledge
24.A male client is receiving total parenteral nutrition suddenly demonstrates signs and symptoms of an air embolism. What is the priority action by the nurse?

Notify the physician.
Place the client on the left side in the Trendelenburg position.
Place the client in high-Fowlers position.
Stop the total parenteral nutrition.
25.Nurse May attends an educational conference on leadership styles. The nurse is sitting with a nurse employed at a large trauma center who states that the leadership style at the trauma center is task-oriented and directive. The nurse determines that the leadership style used at the trauma center is:

Autocratic.
Laissez-faire.
Democratic.
Situational
26.The physician orders DS 500 cc with KCl 10 mEq/liter at 30 cc/hr. The nurse in-charge is going to hang a 500 cc bag. KCl is supplied 20 mEq/10 cc. How many cc’s of KCl will be added to the IV solution?

.5 cc
5 cc
1.5 cc
2.5 cc
27.A child of 10 years old is to receive 400 cc of IV fluid in an 8 hour shift. The IV drip factor is 60. The IV rate that will deliver this amount is:

50 cc/ hour
55 cc/ hour
24 cc/ hour
66 cc/ hour
28.The nurse is aware that the most important nursing action when a client returns from surgery is:

Assess the IV for type of fluid and rate of flow.
Assess the client for presence of pain.
Assess the Foley catheter for patency and urine output
Assess the dressing for drainage.
29. Which of the following vital sign assessments that may indicate cardiogenic shock after myocardial infarction?

BP – 80/60, Pulse – 110 irregular
BP – 90/50, Pulse – 50 regular
BP – 130/80, Pulse – 100 regular
BP – 180/100, Pulse – 90 irregular
30.Which is the most appropriate nursing action in obtaining a blood pressure measurement?

Take the proper equipment, place the client in a comfortable position, and record the appropriate information in the client’s chart.
Measure the client’s arm, if you are not sure of the size of cuff to use.
Have the client recline or sit comfortably in a chair with the forearm at the level of the heart.
Document the measurement, which extremity was used, and the position that the client was in during the measurement.
31.Asking the questions to determine if the person understands the health teaching provided by the nurse would be included during which step of the nursing process?

Assessment
Evaluation
Implementation
Planning and goals
32.Which of the following item is considered the single most important factor in assisting the health professional in arriving at a diagnosis or determining the person’s needs?

Diagnostic test results
Biographical date
History of present illness
Physical examination
33.In preventing the development of an external rotation deformity of the hip in a client who must remain in bed for any period of time, the most appropriate nursing action would be to use:

Trochanter roll extending from the crest of the ileum to the midthigh.
Pillows under the lower legs.
Footboard
Hip-abductor pillow
34.Which stage of pressure ulcer development does the ulcer extend into the subcutaneous tissue?

Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
Stage IV
35.When the method of wound healing is one in which wound edges are not surgically approximated and integumentary continuity is restored by granulations, the wound healing is termed

Second intention healing
Primary intention healing
Third intention healing
First intention healing
36.An 80-year-old male client is admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of pneumonia. Nurse Oliver learns that the client lives alone and hasn’t been eating or drinking. When assessing him for dehydration, nurse Oliver would expect to find:

Hypothermia
Hypertension
Distended neck veins
Tachycardia
37.The physician prescribes meperidine (Demerol), 75 mg I.M. every 4 hours as needed, to control a client’s postoperative pain. The package insert is “Meperidine, 100 mg/ml.” How many milliliters of meperidine should the client receive?

0.75
0.6
0.5
0.25
38. A male client with diabetes mellitus is receiving insulin. Which statement correctly describes an insulin unit?

It’s a common measurement in the metric system.
It’s the basis for solids in the avoirdupois system.
It’s the smallest measurement in the apothecary system.
It’s a measure of effect, not a standard measure of weight or quantity.
39.Nurse Oliver measures a client’s temperature at 102° F. What is the equivalent Centigrade temperature?

40.1 °C
38.9 °C
48 °C
38 °C
40.The nurse is assessing a 48-year-old client who has come to the physician’s office for his annual physical exam. One of the first physical signs of aging is:

Accepting limitations while developing assets.
Increasing loss of muscle tone.
Failing eyesight, especially close vision.
Having more frequent aches and pains.