41.The physician inserts a chest tube into a female client to treat a pneumothorax. The tube is connected to water-seal drainage. The nurse in-charge can prevent chest tube air leaks by:

Checking and taping all connections.
Checking patency of the chest tube.
Keeping the head of the bed slightly elevated.
Keeping the chest drainage system below the level of the chest.
42.Nurse Trish must verify the client’s identity before administering medication. She is aware that the safest way to verify identity is to:

Check the client’s identification band.
Ask the client to state his name.
State the client’s name out loud and wait a client to repeat it.
Check the room number and the client’s name on the bed.
43.The physician orders dextrose 5 % in water, 1,000 ml to be infused over 8 hours. The I.V. tubing delivers 15 drops/ml. Nurse John should run the I.V. infusion at a rate of:

30 drops/minute
32 drops/minute
20 drops/minute
18 drops/minute
44.If a central venous catheter becomes disconnected accidentally, what should the nurse in-charge do immediately?

Clamp the catheter
Call another nurse
Call the physician
Apply a dry sterile dressing to the site.
45.A female client was recently admitted. She has fever, weight loss, and watery diarrhea is being admitted to the facility. While assessing the client, Nurse Hazel inspects the client’s abdomen and notice that it is slightly concave. Additional assessment should proceed in which order:

Palpation, auscultation, and percussion.
Percussion, palpation, and auscultation.
Palpation, percussion, and auscultation.
Auscultation, percussion, and palpation.
46. Nurse Betty is assessing tactile fremitus in a client with pneumonia. For this examination, nurse Betty should use the:

Fingertips
Finger pads
Dorsal surface of the hand
Ulnar surface of the hand
47. Which type of evaluation occurs continuously throughout the teaching and learning process?

Summative
Informative
Formative
Retrospective
48.A 45 year old client, has no family history of breast cancer or other risk factors for this disease. Nurse John should instruct her to have mammogram how often?

Twice per year
Once per year
Every 2 years
Once, to establish baseline
49.A male client has the following arterial blood gas values: pH 7.30; Pao2 89 mmHg; Paco2 50 mmHg; and HCO3 26mEq/L. Based on these values, Nurse Patricia should expect which condition?

Respiratory acidosis
Respiratory alkalosis
Metabolic acidosis
Metabolic alkalosis
50.Nurse Len refers a female client with terminal cancer to a local hospice. What is the goal of this referral?

To help the client find appropriate treatment options.
To provide support for the client and family in coping with terminal illness.
To ensure that the client gets counseling regarding health care costs.
To teach the client and family about cancer and its treatment.
51.When caring for a male client with a 3-cm stage I pressure ulcer on the coccyx, which of the following actions can the nurse institute independently?

Massaging the area with an astringent every 2 hours.
Applying an antibiotic cream to the area three times per day.
Using normal saline solution to clean the ulcer and applying a protective dressing as necessary.
Using a povidone-iodine wash on the ulceration three times per day.
52.Nurse Oliver must apply an elastic bandage to a client’s ankle and calf. He should apply the bandage beginning at the client’s:

Knee
Ankle
Lower thigh
Foot
53.A 10 year old child with type 1 diabetes develops diabetic ketoacidosis and receives a continuous insulin infusion. Which condition represents the greatest risk to this child?

Hypernatremia
Hypokalemia
Hyperphosphatemia
Hypercalcemia
54.Nurse Len is administering sublingual nitrglycerin (Nitrostat) to the newly admitted client. Immediately afterward, the client may experience:

Throbbing headache or dizziness
Nervousness or paresthesia.
Drowsiness or blurred vision.
Tinnitus or diplopia.
55.Nurse Michelle hears the alarm sound on the telemetry monitor. The nurse quickly looks at the monitor and notes that a client is in a ventricular tachycardia. The nurse rushes to the client’s room. Upon reaching the client’s bedside, the nurse would take which action first?

Prepare for cardioversion
Prepare to defibrillate the client
Call a code
Check the client’s level of consciousness
56.Nurse Hazel is preparing to ambulate a female client. The best and the safest position for the nurse in assisting the client is to stand:

On the unaffected side of the client.
On the affected side of the client.
In front of the client.
Behind the client.
57.Nurse Janah is monitoring the ongoing care given to the potential organ donor who has been diagnosed with brain death. The nurse determines that the standard of care had been maintained if which of the following data is observed?

Urine output: 45 ml/hr
Capillary refill: 5 seconds
Serum pH: 7.32
Blood pressure: 90/48 mmHg
58. Nurse Amy has an order to obtain a urinalysis from a male client with an indwelling urinary catheter. The nurse avoids which of the following, which contaminate the specimen?

Wiping the port with an alcohol swab before inserting the syringe.
Aspirating a sample from the port on the drainage bag.
Clamping the tubing of the drainage bag.
Obtaining the specimen from the urinary drainage bag.
59.Nurse Meredith is in the process of giving a client a bed bath. In the middle of the procedure, the unit secretary calls the nurse on the intercom to tell the nurse that there is an emergency phone call. The appropriate nursing action is to:

Immediately walk out of the client’s room and answer the phone call.
Cover the client, place the call light within reach, and answer the phone call.
Finish the bed bath before answering the phone call.
Leave the client’s door open so the client can be monitored and the nurse can answer the phone call.
60. Nurse Janah is collecting a sputum specimen for culture and sensitivity testing from a client who has a productive cough. Nurse Janah plans to implement which intervention to obtain the specimen?

Ask the client to expectorate a small amount of sputum into the emesis basin.
Ask the client to obtain the specimen after breakfast.
Use a sterile plastic container for obtaining the specimen.
Provide tissues for expectoration and obtaining the specimen.