61. Nurse Ron is observing a male client using a walker. The nurse determines that the client is using the walker correctly if the client:

Puts all the four points of the walker flat on the floor, puts weight on the hand pieces, and then walks into it.
Puts weight on the hand pieces, moves the walker forward, and then walks into it.
Puts weight on the hand pieces, slides the walker forward, and then walks into it.
Walks into the walker, puts weight on the hand pieces, and then puts all four points of the walker flat on the floor.
62.Nurse Amy has documented an entry regarding client care in the client’s medical record. When checking the entry, the nurse realizes that incorrect information was documented. How does the nurse correct this error?

Erases the error and writes in the correct information.
Uses correction fluid to cover up the incorrect information and writes in the correct information.
Draws one line to cross out the incorrect information and then initials the change.
Covers up the incorrect information completely using a black pen and writes in the correct information
63.Nurse Ron is assisting with transferring a client from the operating room table to a stretcher. To provide safety to the client, the nurse should:

Moves the client rapidly from the table to the stretcher.
Uncovers the client completely before transferring to the stretcher.
Secures the client safety belts after transferring to the stretcher.
Instructs the client to move self from the table to the stretcher.
64.Nurse Myrna is providing instructions to a nursing assistant assigned to give a bed bath to a client who is on contact precautions. Nurse Myrna instructs the nursing assistant to use which of the following protective items when giving bed bath?

Gown and goggles
Gown and gloves
Gloves and shoe protectors
Gloves and goggles
65. Nurse Oliver is caring for a client with impaired mobility that occurred as a result of a stroke. The client has right sided arm and leg weakness. The nurse would suggest that the client use which of the following assistive devices that would provide the best stability for ambulating?

Crutches
Single straight-legged cane
Quad cane
Walker
66.A male client with a right pleural effusion noted on a chest X-ray is being prepared for thoracentesis. The client experiences severe dizziness when sitting upright. To provide a safe environment, the nurse assists the client to which position for the procedure?

Prone with head turned toward the side supported by a pillow.
Sims’ position with the head of the bed flat.
Right side-lying with the head of the bed elevated 45 degrees.
Left side-lying with the head of the bed elevated 45 degrees.
67.Nurse John develops methods for data gathering. Which of the following criteria of a good instrument refers to the ability of the instrument to yield the same results upon its repeated administration?

Validity
Specificity
Sensitivity
Reliability
68.Harry knows that he has to protect the rights of human research subjects. Which of the following actions of Harry ensures anonymity?

Keep the identities of the subject secret
Obtain informed consent
Provide equal treatment to all the subjects of the study.
Release findings only to the participants of the study
69.Patient’s refusal to divulge information is a limitation because it is beyond the control of Tifanny”. What type of research is appropriate for this study?

Descriptive- correlational
Experiment
Quasi-experiment
Historical
70.Nurse Ronald is aware that the best tool for data gathering is?

Interview schedule
Questionnaire
Use of laboratory data
Observation
71.Monica is aware that there are times when only manipulation of study variables is possible and the elements of control or randomization are not attendant. Which type of research is referred to this?

Field study
Quasi-experiment
Solomon-Four group design
Post-test only design
72.Cherry notes down ideas that were derived from the description of an investigation written by the person who conducted it. Which type of reference source refers to this?

Footnote
Bibliography
Primary source
Endnotes
73.When Nurse Trish is providing care to his patient, she must remember that her duty is bound not to do doing any action that will cause the patient harm. This is the meaning of the bioethical principle:

Non-maleficence
Beneficence
Justice
Solidarity
74.When a nurse in-charge causes an injury to a female patient and the injury caused becomes the proof of the negligent act, the presence of the injury is said to exemplify the principle of:

Force majeure
Respondeat superior
Res ipsa loquitor
Holdover doctrine
75.Nurse Myrna is aware that the Board of Nursing has quasi-judicial power. An example of this power is:

The Board can issue rules and regulations that will govern the practice of nursing
The Board can investigate violations of the nursing law and code of ethics
The Board can visit a school applying for a permit in collaboration with CHED
The Board prepares the board examinations
76. When the license of nurse Krina is revoked, it means that she:

Is no longer allowed to practice the profession for the rest of her life
Will never have her/his license re-issued since it has been revoked
May apply for re-issuance of his/her license based on certain conditions stipulated in RA 9173
Will remain unable to practice professional nursing
77.Ronald plans to conduct a research on the use of a new method of pain assessment scale. Which of the following is the second step in the conceptualizing phase of the research process?

Formulating the research hypothesis
Review related literature
Formulating and delimiting the research problem
Design the theoretical and conceptual framework
78. The leader of the study knows that certain patients who are in a specialized research setting tend to respond psychologically to the conditions of the study. This referred to as :

Cause and effect
Hawthorne effect
Halo effect
Horns effect
79.Mary finally decides to use judgment sampling on her research. Which of the following actions of is correct?

Plans to include whoever is there during his study.
Determines the different nationality of patients frequently admitted and decides to get representations samples from each.
Assigns numbers for each of the patients, place these in a fishbowl and draw 10 from it.
Decides to get 20 samples from the admitted patients
80. The nursing theorist who developed transcultural nursing theory is:

Florence Nightingale
Madeleine Leininger
Albert Moore
Sr. Callista Roy 
