81.Marion is aware that the sampling method that gives equal chance to all units in the population to get picked is:

Random
Accidental
Quota
Judgment
82.John plans to use a Likert Scale to his study to determine the:

Degree of agreement and disagreement
Compliance to expected standards
Level of satisfaction
Degree of acceptance
83.Which of the following theory addresses the four modes of adaptation?

Madeleine Leininger
Sr. Callista Roy
Florence Nightingale
Jean Watson
84.Ms. Garcia is responsible to the number of personnel reporting to her. This principle refers to:

Span of control
Unity of command
Downward communication
Leader
85.Ensuring that there is an informed consent on the part of the patient before a surgery is done, illustrates the bioethical principle of:

Beneficence
Autonomy
Veracity
Non-maleficence
86.Nurse Reese is teaching a female client with peripheral vascular disease about foot care; Nurse Reese should include which instruction?

Avoid wearing cotton socks.
Avoid using a nail clipper to cut toenails.
Avoid wearing canvas shoes.
Avoid using cornstarch on feet.
87.A client is admitted with multiple pressure ulcers. When developing the client’s diet plan, the nurse should include:

Fresh orange slices
Steamed broccoli
Ice cream
Ground beef patties
88.The nurse prepares to administer a cleansing enema. What is the most common client position used for this procedure?

Lithotomy
Supine
Prone
Sims’ left lateral
89.Nurse Marian is preparing to administer a blood transfusion. Which action should the nurse take first?

Arrange for typing and cross matching of the client’s blood.
Compare the client’s identification wristband with the tag on the unit of blood.
Start an I.V. infusion of normal saline solution.
Measure the client’s vital signs.
90.A 65 years old male client requests his medication at 9 p.m. instead of 10 p.m. so that he can go to sleep earlier. Which type of nursing intervention is required?

Independent
Dependent
Interdependent
Intradependent
91.A female client is to be discharged from an acute care facility after treatment for right leg thrombophlebitis. The Nurse Betty notes that the client’s leg is pain-free, without redness or edema. The nurse’s actions reflect which step of the nursing process?

Assessment
Diagnosis
Implementation
Evaluation
92.Nursing care for a female client includes removing elastic stockings once per day. The Nurse Betty is aware that the rationale for this intervention?

To increase blood flow to the heart
To observe the lower extremities
To allow the leg muscles to stretch and relax
To permit veins in the legs to fill with blood.
93.Which nursing intervention takes highest priority when caring for a newly admitted client who’s receiving a blood transfusion?

Instructing the client to report any itching, swelling, or dyspnea.
Informing the client that the transfusion usually take 1 ½ to 2 hours.
Documenting blood administration in the client care record.
Assessing the client’s vital signs when the transfusion ends.
94.A male client complains of abdominal discomfort and nausea while receiving tube feedings. Which intervention is most appropriate for this problem?

Give the feedings at room temperature.
Decrease the rate of feedings and the concentration of the formula.
Place the client in semi-Fowler’s position while feeding.
Change the feeding container every 12 hours.
95.Nurse Patricia is reconstituting a powdered medication in a vial. After adding the solution to the powder, she nurse should:

Do nothing.
Invert the vial and let it stand for 3 to 5 minutes.
Shake the vial vigorously.
Roll the vial gently between the palms.
96.Which intervention should the nurse Trish use when administering oxygen by face mask to a female client?

Secure the elastic band tightly around the client’s head.
Assist the client to the semi-Fowler position if possible.
Apply the face mask from the client’s chin up over the nose.
Loosen the connectors between the oxygen equipment and humidifier.
97.The maximum transfusion time for a unit of packed red blood cells (RBCs) is:

6 hours
4 hours
3 hours
2 hours
98.Nurse Monique is monitoring the effectiveness of a client’s drug therapy. When should the nurse Monique obtain a blood sample to measure the trough drug level?

1 hour before administering the next dose.
Immediately before administering the next dose.
Immediately after administering the next dose.
30 minutes after administering the next dose.
99.Nurse May is aware that the main advantage of using a floor stock system is:

The nurse can implement medication orders quickly.
The nurse receives input from the pharmacist.
The system minimizes transcription errors.
The system reinforces accurate calculations.
100. Nurse Oliver is assessing a client’s abdomen. Which finding should the nurse report as abnormal?

Dullness over the liver.
Bowel sounds occurring every 10 seconds.
Shifting dullness over the abdomen.
Vascular sounds heard over the renal arteries. 
