1. Which element in the circular chain of infection can be eliminated by preserving skin integrity?
Host
Reservoir
Mode of transmission
Portal of entry
2. Which of the following will probably result in a break in sterile technique for respiratory isolation?
Opening the patient’s window to the outside environment
Turning on the patient’s room ventilator
Opening the door of the patient’s room leading into the hospital corridor
Failing to wear gloves when administering a bed bath
3. Which of the following patients is at greater risk for contracting an infection?
A patient with leukopenia
A patient receiving broad-spectrum antibiotics
A postoperative patient who has undergone orthopedic surgery
A newly diagnosed diabetic patient
4. Effective hand washing requires the use of:
Soap or detergent to promote emulsification
Hot water to destroy bacteria
A disinfectant to increase surface tension
All of the above
5. After routine patient contact, hand washing should last at least:
30 seconds
1 minute
2 minute
3 minutes
6. Which of the following procedures always requires surgical asepsis?
Vaginal instillation of conjugated estrogen
Urinary catheterization
Nasogastric tube insertion
Colostomy irrigation
7. Sterile technique is used whenever:
Strict isolation is required
Terminal disinfection is performed
Invasive procedures are performed
Protective isolation is necessary
8. Which of the following constitutes a break in sterile technique while preparing a sterile field for a dressing change?
Using sterile forceps, rather than sterile gloves, to handle a sterile item
Touching the outside wrapper of sterilized material without sterile gloves
Placing a sterile object on the edge of the sterile field
Pouring out a small amount of solution (15 to 30 ml) before pouring the solution into a sterile container
9. A natural body defense that plays an active role in preventing infection is:
Yawning
Body hair
Hiccupping
Rapid eye movements
10. All of the following statement are true about donning sterile gloves except:
The first glove should be picked up by grasping the inside of the cuff.
The second glove should be picked up by inserting the gloved fingers under the cuff outside the glove.
The gloves should be adjusted by sliding the gloved fingers under the sterile cuff and pulling the glove over the wrist
The inside of the glove is considered sterile
11.When removing a contaminated gown, the nurse should be careful that the first thing she touches is the:
Waist tie and neck tie at the back of the gown
Waist tie in front of the gown
Cuffs of the gown
Inside of the gown
12.Which of the following nursing interventions is considered the most effective form or universal precautions?
Cap all used needles before removing them from their syringes
Discard all used uncapped needles and syringes in an impenetrable protective container
Wear gloves when administering IM injections
Follow enteric precautions
13.All of the following measures are recommended to prevent pressure ulcers except:
Massaging the reddened are with lotion
Using a water or air mattress
Adhering to a schedule for positioning and turning
Providing meticulous skin care
14.Which of the following blood tests should be performed before a blood transfusion?
Prothrombin and coagulation time
Blood typing and cross-matching
Bleeding and clotting time
Complete blood count (CBC) and electrolyte levels.
15.The primary purpose of a platelet count is to evaluate the:
Potential for clot formation
Potential for bleeding
Presence of an antigen-antibody response
Presence of cardiac enzymes
16.Which of the following white blood cell (WBC) counts clearly indicates leukocytosis?
4,500/mm³
7,000/mm³
10,000/mm³
25,000/mm³
17. After 5 days of diuretic therapy with 20mg of furosemide (Lasix) daily, a patient begins to exhibit fatigue, muscle cramping and muscle weakness. These symptoms probably indicate that the patient is experiencing:
Hypokalemia
Hyperkalemia
Anorexia
Dysphagia
18.Which of the following statements about chest X-ray is false?
No contradictions exist for this test
Before the procedure, the patient should remove all jewelry, metallic objects, and buttons above the waist
A signed consent is not required
Eating, drinking, and medications are allowed before this test
19.The most appropriate time for the nurse to obtain a sputum specimen for culture is:
Early in the morning
After the patient eats a light breakfast
After aerosol therapy
After chest physiotherapy
20.A patient with no known allergies is to receive penicillin every 6 hours. When administering the medication, the nurse observes a fine rash on the patient’s skin. The most appropriate nursing action would be to:
Withhold the moderation and notify the physician
Administer the medication and notify the physician
Administer the medication with an antihistamine
Apply corn starch soaks to the rash
21.All of the following nursing interventions are correct when using the Ztrack method of drug injection except:
Prepare the injection site with alcohol
Use a needle that’s a least 1” long
Aspirate for blood before injection
Rub the site vigorously after the injection to promote absorption
22.The correct method for determining the vastus lateralis site for I.M. injection is to:
Locate the upper aspect of the upper outer quadrant of the buttock about 5 to 8 cm below the iliac crest
Palpate the lower edge of the acromion process and the midpoint lateral aspect of the arm
Palpate a 1” circular area anterior to the umbilicus
Divide the area between the greater femoral trochanter and the lateral femoral condyle into thirds, and select the middle third on the anterior of the thigh
23.The mid-deltoid injection site is seldom used for I.M. injections because it:
Can accommodate only 1 ml or less of medication
Bruises too easily
Can be used only when the patient is lying down
Does not readily parenteral medication
24.The appropriate needle size for insulin injection is:
18G, 1 ½” long
22G, 1” long
22G, 1 ½” long
25G, 5/8” long
25.The appropriate needle gauge for intradermal injection is:
20G
22G
25G
26G
26.Parenteral penicillin can be administered as an:
IM injection or an IV solution
IV or an intradermal injection
Intradermal or subcutaneous injection
IM or a subcutaneous injection
27.The physician orders gr 10 of aspirin for a patient. The equivalent dose in milligrams is:
0.6 mg
10 mg
60 mg
600 mg
28.The physician orders an IV solution of dextrose 5% in water at 100ml/hour. What would the flow rate be if the drop factor is 15 gtt = 1 ml?
5 gtt/minute
13 gtt/minute
25 gtt/minute
50 gtt/minute
29.Which of the following is a sign or symptom of a hemolytic reaction to blood transfusion?
Hemoglobinuria
Chest pain
Urticaria
Distended neck veins
30.Which of the following conditions may require fluid restriction?
Fever
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Renal Failure
Dehydration
31.All of the following are common signs and symptoms of phlebitis except:
Pain or discomfort at the IV insertion site
Edema and warmth at the IV insertion site
A red streak exiting the IV insertion site
Frank bleeding at the insertion site
32.The best way of determining whether a patient has learned to instill ear medication properly is for the nurse to:
Ask the patient if he/she has used ear drops before
Have the patient repeat the nurse’s instructions using her own words
Demonstrate the procedure to the patient and encourage to ask questions
Ask the patient to demonstrate the procedure
33.Which of the following types of medications can be administered via gastrostomy tube?
Any oral medications
Capsules whole contents are dissolve in water
Enteric-coated tablets that are thoroughly dissolved in water
Most tablets designed for oral use, except for extended-duration compounds
34.A patient who develops hives after receiving an antibiotic is exhibiting drug:
Tolerance
Idiosyncrasy
Synergism
Allergy
35.A patient has returned to his room after femoral arteriography. All of the following are appropriate nursing interventions except:
Assess femoral, popliteal, and pedal pulses every 15 minutes for 2 hours
Check the pressure dressing for sanguineous drainage
Assess a vital signs every 15 minutes for 2 hours
Order a hemoglobin and hematocrit count 1 hour after the arteriography
36.The nurse explains to a patient that a cough:
Is a protective response to clear the respiratory tract of irritants
Is primarily a voluntary action
Is induced by the administration of an antitussive drug
Can be inhibited by “splinting” the abdomen
37.An infected patient has chills and begins shivering. The best nursing intervention is to:
Apply iced alcohol sponges
Provide increased cool liquids
Provide additional bedclothes
Provide increased ventilation
38.A clinical nurse specialist is a nurse who has:
Been certified by the National League for Nursing
Received credentials from the Philippine Nurses’ Association
Graduated from an associate degree program and is a registered professional nurse
Completed a master’s degree in the prescribed clinical area and is a registered professional nurse.
39.The purpose of increasing urine acidity through dietary means is to:
Decrease burning sensations
Change the urine’s color
Change the urine’s concentration
Inhibit the growth of microorganisms
40.Clay colored stools indicate:
Upper GI bleeding
Impending constipation
An effect of medication
Bile obstruction
41.In which step of the nursing process would the nurse ask a patient if the medication she administered relieved his pain?
Assessment
Analysis
Planning
Evaluation
42.All of the following are good sources of vitamin A except:
White potatoes
Carrots
Apricots
Egg yolks
43.Which of the following is a primary nursing intervention necessary for all patients with a Foley Catheter in place?
Maintain the drainage tubing and collection bag level with the patient’s bladder
Irrigate the patient with 1% Neosporin solution three times a daily
Clamp the catheter for 1 hour every 4 hours to maintain the bladder’s elasticity
Maintain the drainage tubing and collection bag below bladder level to facilitate drainage by gravity
44.The ELISA test is used to:
Screen blood donors for antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
Test blood to be used for transfusion for HIV antibodies
Aid in diagnosing a patient with AIDS
All of the above
45.The two blood vessels most commonly used for TPN infusion are the:
Subclavian and jugular veins
Brachial and subclavian veins
Femoral and subclavian veins
Brachial and femoral veins
46.Effective skin disinfection before a surgical procedure includes which of the following methods?
Shaving the site on the day before surgery
Applying a topical antiseptic to the skin on the evening before surgery
Having the patient take a tub bath on the morning of surgery
Having the patient shower with an antiseptic soap on the evening v=before and the morning of surgery
47.When transferring a patient from a bed to a chair, the nurse should use which muscles to avoid back injury?
Abdominal muscles
Back muscles
Leg muscles
Upper arm muscles
48.Thrombophlebitis typically develops in patients with which of the following conditions?
Increases partial thromboplastin time
Acute pulsus paradoxus
An impaired or traumatized blood vessel wall
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
49.In a recumbent, immobilized patient, lung ventilation can become altered, leading to such respiratory complications as:
Respiratory acidosis, ateclectasis, and hypostatic pneumonia
Appneustic breathing, atypical pneumonia and respiratory alkalosis
Cheyne-Strokes respirations and spontaneous pneumothorax
Kussmail’s respirations and hypoventilation
50.Immobility impairs bladder elimination, resulting in such disorders as
Increased urine acidity and relaxation of the perineal muscles, causing incontinence
Urine retention, bladder distention, and infection
Diuresis, natriuresis, and decreased urine specific gravity
Decreased calcium and phosphate levels in the urine