1. The coronary vessels, unlike any other blood vessels in the body, respond to sympathetic stimulation by

Vasoconstriction
Vasodilatation
Decreases force of contractility
Decreases cardiac output
2. What stress response can you expect from a patient with blood sugar of 50 mg / dl?

Body will try to decrease the glucose level
There will be a halt in release of sex hormones
Client will appear restless
Blood pressure will increase
3. All of the following are purpose of inflammation except

Increase heat, thereby produce abatement of phagocytosis
Localized tissue injury by increasing capillary permeability
Protect the issue from injury by producing pain
Prepare for tissue repair
4. The initial response of tissue after injury is

Immediate Vasodilation
Transient Vasoconstriction
Immediate Vasoconstriction
Transient Vasodilation
5. The last expected process in the stages of inflammation is characterized by

There will be sudden redness of the affected part
Heat will increase on the affected part
The affected part will loss its normal function
Exudates will flow from the injured site
6. What kind of exudates is expected when there is an antibody-antigen reaction as a result of microorganism infection?

Serous
Serosanguinous
Purulent
Sanguinous
7. The first manifestation of inflammation is

Redness on the affected area
Swelling of the affected area
Pain, which causes guarding of the area
Increase heat due to transient vasodilation
8. The client has a chronic tissue injury. Upon examining the client’s antibody for a particular cellular response, Which of the following WBC component is responsible for phagocytosis in chronic tissue injury?

Neutrophils
Basophils
Eosinophils
Monocytes
9. Which of the following WBC component proliferates in cases of Anaphylaxis?

Neutrophils
Basophils
Eosinophil
Monocytes
10. Icheanne, ask you, her Nurse, about WBC Components. She got an injury yesterday after she twisted her ankle accidentally at her gymnastic class. She asked you, which WBC Component is responsible for proliferation at the injured site immediately following an injury. You answer:

Neutrophils
Basophils
Eosinophils
Monocytes
11. Icheanne then asked you, what is the first process that occurs in the inflammatory response after injury, You tell her:

Phagocytosis
Emigration
Pavementation
Chemotaxis
12. Icheanne asked you again, What is that term that describes the magnetic attraction of injured tissue to bring phagocytes to the site of injury?

Icheanne, you better sleep now, you asked a lot of questions
It is Diapedesis
We call that Emigration
I don’t know the answer, perhaps I can tell you after I find it out later
13. This type of healing occurs when there is a delayed surgical closure of infected wound

First intention
Second intention
Third intention
Fourth intention
14. Type of healing when scars are minimal due to careful surgical incision and good healing

First intention
Second intention
Third intention
Fourth intention
15. Imelda, was slashed and hacked by an unknown suspects. She suffered massive tissue loss and laceration on her arms and elbow in an attempt to evade the criminal. As a nurse, you know that the type of healing that will most likely occur to Miss Imelda is

First intention
Second intention
Third intention
Fourth intention
16. Imelda is in the recovery stage after the incident. As a nurse, you know that the diet that will be prescribed to Miss Imelda is

Low calorie, High protein with Vitamin A and C rich foods
High protein, High calorie with Vitamin A and C rich foods
High calorie, Low protein with Vitamin A and C rich foods
Low calorie, Low protein with Vitamin A and C rich foods
17. Miss Imelda asked you, What is WET TO DRY Dressing method? Your best response is

It is a type of mechanical debridement using Wet dressing that is applied and left to dry to remove dead tissues
It is a type of surgical debridement with the use of Wet dressing to remove the necrotic tissues
It is a type of dressing where in, The wound is covered with Wet or Dry dressing to prevent contamination
It is a type of dressing where in, A cellophane or plastic is placed on the wound over a wet dressing to stimulate healing of the wound in a wet medium
18. The primary cause of pain in inflammation is

Release of pain mediators
Injury to the nerve endings
Compression of the local nerve endings by the edema fluids
Circulation is lessen, Supply of oxygen is insufficient
19. The client is in stress because he was told by the physician he needs to undergo surgery for removal of tumor in his bladder. Which of the following are effects of sympatho-adreno-medullary response by the client? 1.Constipation, 2.Urinary frequency, 3.Hyperglycemia, 4.Increased blood pressure
3,4
1,3,4
1,2,4
1,4
20. The client is on NPO post midnight. Which of the following, if done by the client, is sufficient to cancel the operation in the morning?

Eat a full meal at 10:00 P.M
Drink fluids at 11:50 P.M
Brush his teeth the morning before operation
Smoke cigarette around 3:00 A.M
21. The client place on NPO for preparation of the blood test. Adreno-cortical response is activated and which of the following below is an expected response?

Low BP
Decrease Urine output
Warm, flushed, dry skin
Low serum sodium levels
22. Which of the following is true about therapeutic relationship?

Directed towards helping an individual both physically and emotionally
Bases on friendship and mutual trust
Goals are set by the solely nurse
Maintained even after the client doesn’t need anymore of the Nurse’s help
23. According to her, A nurse patient relationship is composed of 4 stages : Orientation, Identification, Exploitation and Resolution

Roy
Peplau
Rogers
Travelbee
24. In what phase of Nurse patient relationship does a nurse review the client’s medical records thereby learning as much as possible about the client?

Pre Orientation
Orientation
Working
Termination
25. Nurse Aida has seen her patient, Roger for the first time. She establish a contract about the frequency of meeting and introduce to Roger the expected termination. She started taking baseline assessment and set interventions and outcomes. On what phase of NPR Does Nurse Aida and Roger belong?

Pre Orientation
Orientation
Working
Termination
26. Roger has been seen agitated, shouting and running. As Nurse Aida approaches, he shouts and swear, calling Aida names. Nurse Aida told Roger “That is an unacceptable behavior Roger, Stop and go to your room now.” The situation is most likely in what phase of NPR?

Pre Orientation
Orientation
Working
Termination
27. Nurse Aida, in spite of the incident, still consider Roger as worthwhile simply because he is a human being. What major ingredient of a therapeutic communication is Nurse Aida using?

Empathy
Positive regard
Comfortable sense of self
Self awareness
28. Nurse Irma saw Roger and told Nurse Aida “ Oh look at that psychotic patient “ Nurse Aida should intervene and correct Nurse Irma because her statement shows that she is lacking?

Empathy
Positive regard
Comfortable sense of self
Self awareness
29. Which of the following statement is not true about stress?

It is a nervous energy
It is an essential aspect of existence
It has been always a part of human experience
It is something each person has to cope
30. Martina, a Tennis champ was devastated after many new competitors outpaced her in the Wimbledon event. She became depressed and always seen crying. Martina is clearly on what kind of situation?

Martina is just stressed out
Martina is Anxious
Martina is in the exhaustion stage of GAS
Martina is in Crisis
31. Which of the following statement is not true with regards to anxiety?

It has physiologic component
It has psychologic component
The source of dread or uneasiness is from an unrecognized entity
The source of dread or uneasiness is from a recognized entity
32. Lorraine, a 27 year old executive was brought to the ER for an unknown reason. She is starting to speak but her speech is disorganized and cannot be understood. On what level of anxiety does this features belongs?

Mild
Moderate
Severe
Panic
33. Elton, 21 year old nursing student is taking the board examination. She is sweating profusely, has decreased awareness of his environment and is purely focused on the exam questions characterized by his selective attentiveness. What anxiety level is Elton exemplifying?

Mild
Moderate
Severe
Panic
34. You noticed the patient chart : ANXIETY +3 What will you expect to see in this client?

An optimal time for learning, Hearing and perception is greatly increased
Dilated pupils
Unable to communicate
Palliative Coping Mechanism
35. When should the nurse starts giving XANAX?

When anxiety is +1
When the client starts to have a narrow perceptual field and selective inattentiveness
When problem solving is not possible
When the client is immobile and disorganized
36. Which of the following behavior is not a sign or a symptom of Anxiety?

Frequent hand movement
Somatization
The client asks a question
The client is acting out
37. Which of the following intervention is inappropriate for client’s with anxiety?

Offer choices
Provide a quiet and calm environment
Provide detailed explanation on each and every procedures and equipments
Bring anxiety down to a controllable level
38. Which of the following statement, if made by the nurse, is considered not therapeutic?

“How did you deal with your anxiety before?”
“It must be awful to feel anxious.”
“How does it feel to be anxious?”
“What makes you feel anxious?”
39. Marissa Salva, Uses Benson’s relaxation. How is it done?

Systematically tensing muscle groups from top to bottom for 5 seconds, and then releasing them
Concentrating on breathing without tensing the muscle, Letting go and repeating a word or sound after each exhalation
Using a strong positive, feeling-rich statement about a desired change
Exercise combined with meditation to foster relaxation and mental alacrity
40. What type of relaxation technique does Lyza uses if a machine is showing her pulse rate, temperature and muscle tension which she can visualize and assess?

Biofeedback
Massage
Autogenic training
Visualization and Imagery
41. This is also known as Self-suggestion or Self-hypnosis

Biofeedback
Meditation
Autogenic training
Visualization and Imagery
42. Which among these drugs is NOT an anxiolytic?

Valium
Ativan
Milltown
Luvox
43. Kenneth, 25 year old diagnosed with HIV felt that he had not lived up with God’s expectation. He fears that in the course of his illness, God will be punitive and not be supportive. What kind of spiritual crisis is Kenneth experiencing? 1.Spiritual Pain, 2.Spiritual Anxiety, 3.Spiritual Guilt, 4.Spiritual Despair
1,2
2,3
3,4
1,4
44. Grace, believes that her relationship with God is broken. She tried to go to church to ask forgiveness everyday to remedy her feelings. What kind of spiritual distress is Grace experiencing?

Spiritual Pan
Spiritual Alienation
Spiritual Guilt
Spiritual Despair
45. Remedios felt “EMPTY” She felt that she has already lost God’s favor and love because of her sins. This is a type of what spiritual crisis?

Spiritual Anger
Spiritual Loss
Spiritual Despair
Spiritual Anxiety
46. Budek is working with a schizophrenic patient. He noticed that the client is agitated, pacing back and forth, restless and experiencing Anxiety +3. Budek said “You appear restless” What therapeutic technique did Budek used?

Offering general leads
Seeking clarification
Making observation
Encouraging description of perception
47. Rommel told Budek “ I SEE DEAD PEOPLE “ Budek responded “You see dead people?” This Is an example of therapeutic communication technique?

Reflecting
Restating
Exploring
Seeking clarification
48. Rommel told Budek, “Do you think Im crazy?” Budek responded, “Do you think your crazy?” Budek uses what example of therapeutic communication?

Reflecting
Restating
Exploring
Seeking clarification
49. Myra, 21 year old nursing student has difficulty sleeping. She told Nurse Budek “I really think a lot about my x boyfriend recently” Budek told Myra “And that causes you difficulty sleeping?” Which therapeutic technique is used in this situation?

Reflecting
Restating
Exploring
Seeking clarification
50. Myra told Budek “I cannot sleep, I stay away all night” Budek told her “You have difficulty sleeping” This is what type of therapeutic communication technique?

Reflecting
Restating
Exploring
Seeking clarification
51. Myra said “I saw my dead grandmother here at my bedside a while ago” Budek responded “Really? That is hard to believe, How do you feel about it?” What technique did Budek used?

Disproving
Disagreeing
Voicing Doubt
Presenting Reality
52. Which of the following is a therapeutic communication in response to “I am a GOD, bow before me Or ill summon the dreaded thunder to burn you and purge you to pieces!”

“You are not a GOD, you are Professor Tadle and you are a PE Teacher, not a Nurse. I am Glen, Your nurse.”
“Oh hail GOD Tadle, everyone bow or face his wrath!”
“Hello Mr. Tadle, You are here in the hospital, I am your nurse and you are a patient here”
“How can you be a GOD Mr. Tadle? Can you tell me more about it?”
53. Erik John Senna, Told Nurse Budek “ I don’t want to that, I don’t want that thing.. that’s too painful!” Which of the following response is NON THERAPEUTIC

“ This must be difficult for you, But I need to inject you this for your own good”
“ You sound afraid”
“Are you telling me you don’t want this injection?”
“Why are you so anxious? Please tell me more about your feelings Erik”
54. Legrande De Salvaje Y Cobrador La Jueteng, was caught by the bacolod police because of his illegal activities. When he got home after paying for the bail, He shouted at his son. What defense mechanism did Mr. La Jueteng used?

Restitution
Projection
Displacement
Undoing
55. Later that day, he bought his son ice cream and food. What defense mechanism is Legrande unconsciously doing?

Restitution
Conversion
Redoing
Reaction formation
56. Crisis is a sudden event in ones life that disturbs a person’s homeostasis. Which of the following is NOT TRUE in crisis?

The person experiences heightened feeling of stress
Inability to function in the usual organized manner
Lasts for 4 months
Indicates unpleasant emotional feelings
57. Which of the following is a characteristic of crisis?

Lasts for an unlimited period of time
There is a triggering event
Situation is not dangerous to the person
Person totality is not involved
58. Levito Devin, The Italian prime minister, is due to retire next week. He feels depressed due to the enormous loss of influence, power, fame and fortune. What type of crisis is Devin experiencing?

Situational
Maturational
Social
Phenomenal
59. Estrada, The Philippine president, has been unexpectedly impeached and was out of office before the end of his term. He is in what type of crisis?

Situational
Maturational
Social
Phenomenal
60. The tsunami in Thailand and Indonesia took thousands of people and change million lives. The people affected by the Tsunami are saddened and do not know how to start all over again. What type of crisis is this?

Situational
Maturational
Social
Phenomenal
61. Which of the following is the BEST goal for crisis intervention?

Bring back the client in the pre crisis state
Make sure that the client becomes better
Achieve independence
Provide alternate coping mechanism
62. What is the best intervention when the client has just experienced the crisis and still at the first phase of the crisis?

Behavior therapy
Gestalt therapy
Cognitive therapy
Milieu Therapy
63. Therapeutic nurse client relationship is describes as follows: 1.Based on friendship and mutual interest, 2.It is a professional relationship, 3.It is focused on helping the patient solve problems and achieve health-related goals, 4.Maintained only as long as the patient requires professional help
A. 1,2,3
B. 1,2,4
C. 2,3,4
D. 1,3,4
64. The client is scheduled to have surgical removal of the tumor on her left breast. Which of the following manifestation indicates that she is experiencing Mild Anxiety?

She has increased awareness of her environmental details
She focused on selected aspect of her illness
She experiences incongruence of action, thoughts and feelings
She experiences random motor activities
65. Which of the following nursing intervention would least likely be effective when dealing with a client with aggressive behavior?

Approach him in a calm manner
Provide opportunities to express feelings
Maintain eye contact with the client
Isolate the client from others
66. Whitney, a patient of nurse Budek, verbalizes… “I have nothing, nothing… nothing! Don’t make me close one more door, I don’t wanna hurt anymore!” Which of the following is the most appropriate response by Budek?

Why are you singing?
What makes you say that?
Ofcourse you are everything!
What is that you said?
67. Whitney verbalizes that she is anxious that the diagnostic test might reveal laryngeal cancer. Which of the following is the most appropriate nursing intervention?

Tell the client not to worry until the results are in
Ask the client to express feelings and concern
Reassure the client everything will be alright
Advice the client to divert his attention by watching television and reading newspapers
68. Considered as the most accurate expression of person’s thought and feelings

Verbal communication
Non verbal communication
Written communication
Oral communication
69. Represents inner feeling that a person do not like talking about.

Overt communication
Covert communication
Verbal communication
Non verbal communication
70. Which of the following is NOT a characteristic of an effective Nurse-Client relationship?

Focused on the patient
Based on mutual trust
Conveys acceptance
Discourages emotional bond
71. A type of record wherein , each person or department makes notation in separate records. A nurse will use the nursing notes, The doctor will use the Physician’s order sheet etc. Data is arranged according to information source.

POMR
POR
Traditional
Resource oriented
72. Type of recording that integrates all data about the problem, gathered by members of the health team.

POMR
Traditional
Resource oriented
Source oriented
73. These are data that are monitored by using graphic charts or graphs that indicated the progression or fluctuation of client’s Temperature and Blood pressure.

Progress notes
Kardex
Flow chart
Flow sheet
74. Provides a concise method of organizing and recording data about the client. It is a series of flip cards kept in portable file used in change of shift reports.

Kardex
Progress Notes
SOAPIE
Change of shift report
75. You are about to write an information on the Kardex. There are 4 available writing instruments to use. Which of the following should you use?

Mongol #2
Permanent Ink
A felt or fountain pen
Pilot Pentel Pen marker
76. The client has an allergy to Iodine based dye. Where should you put this vital information in the client’s chart?

In the first page of the client’s chart
At the last page of the client’s chart
At the front metal plate of the chart
In the Kardex
77. Which of the following is NOT TRUE about the Kardex

It provides readily available information
It is a tool of end of shift reports
The primary basis of endorsement
Where Allergies information are written
78. Which of the following, if seen on the Nurses notes, violates characteristic of good recording?

The client has a blood pressure of 120/80, Temperature of 36.6 C Pulse rate of 120 and Respiratory rate of 22
Ate 50% of food served
Refused administration of betaxolol
Visited and seen By Dr. Santiago
79. The physician ordered : Mannerix a.c , what does a.c means?

As desired
Before meals
After meals
Before bed time
80. The physician ordered, Maalox, 2 hours p.c, what does p.c means?

As desired
Before meals
After meals
Before bed time
81. The physician ordered, Maxitrol, Od. What does Od means?

Left eye
Right eye
Both eye
Once a day
82. The physician orderd, Magnesium Hydroxide cc Aluminum Hydroxide. What does cc means?

without
with
one half
With one half dose
83. Physician ordered, Paracetamol tablet ss. What does ss means?

without
with
one half
With one half dose
84. Which of the following indicates that learning has been achieved?

Matuts starts exercising every morning and eating a balance diet after you taught her mag HL tayo program
Donya Delilah has been able to repeat the steps of insulin administration after you taught it to her
Marsha said “ I understand “ after you a health teaching about family planning
John rated 100% on your given quiz about smoking and alcoholism
85. In his theory of learning as a BEHAVIORISM, he stated that transfer of knowledge occurs if a new situation closely resembles an old one.

Bloom
Lewin
Thorndike
Skinner
86. Which of the following is TRUE with regards to learning?

Start from complex to simple
Goals should be hard to achieve so patient can strive to attain unrealistic goals
Visual learning is the best for every individual
Do not teach a client when he is in pain
87. According to Bloom, there are 3 domains in learning. Which of these domains is responsible for the ability of Donya Delilah to inject insulin?

Cognitive
Affective
Psychomotor
Motivative
88. Which domains of learning is responsible for making John and Marsha understand the different kinds of family planning methods?

Cognitive
Affective
Psychomotor
Motivative
89. Which of the following statement clearly defines therapeutic communication?

Therapeutic communication is an interaction process which is primarily directed by the nurse
It conveys feeling of warmth, acceptance and empathy from the nurse to a patient in relaxed atmosphere
Therapeutic communication is a reciprocal interaction based on trust and aimed at identifying patient needs and developing mutual goals
Therapeutic communication is an assessment component of the nursing process
90. Which of the following concept is most important in establishing a therapeutic nurse patient relationship?

The nurse must fully understand the patient’s feelings, perception and reactions before goals can be established
The nurse must be a role model for health fostering behavior
The nurse must recognize that the patient may manifest maladaptive behavior after illness
The nurse should understand that patients might test her before trust is established
91. Which of the following communication skill is most effective in dealing with covert communication?

Validation
Listening
Evaluation
Clarification
92. Which of the following are qualities of a good recording? 1.Brevity, 2.Completeness and chronology, 3.Appropriateness, 4.Accuracy
1,2
3,4
1,2,3
1,2,3,4
93. All of the following chart entries are correct except

V/S 36.8 C,80,16,120/80
Complained of chest pain
Seems agitated
Able to ambulate without assistance
94. Which of the following teaching method is effective in client who needs to be educated about self injection of insulin?

Detailed explanation
Demonstration
Use of pamphlets
Film showing
95. What is the most important characteristic of a nurse patient relationship?

It is growth facilitating
Based on mutual understanding
Fosters hope and confidence
Involves primarily emotional bond
96. Which of the following nursing intervention is needed before teaching a client post spleenectomy deep breathing and coughing exercises?

Tell the patient that deep breathing and coughing exercises is needed to promote good breathing, circulation and prevent complication
Tell the client that deep breathing and coughing exercises is needed to prevent Thrombophlebitis, hydrostatic pneumonia and atelectasis
Medicate client for pain
Tell client that cooperation is vital to improve recovery
97. The client has an allergy with penicillin. What is the best way to communicate this information?

Place an allergy alert in the Kardex
Notify the attending physician
Write it on the patient’s chart
Take note when giving medications
98. An adult client is on extreme pain. He is moaning and grimacing. What is the best way to assess the client’s pain?

Perform physical assessment
Have the client rate his pain on the smiley pain rating scale
Active listening on what the patient says
Observe the client’s behavior
99. Therapeutic communication begins with?

Knowing your client
Knowing yourself
Showing empathy
Encoding
100. The PCS gave new guidelines including leaflets to educate cancer patients. As a nurse, When using materials like this, what is your responsibility?

Read it for the patient
Give it for the patient to read himself
Let the family member read the material for the patient
Read it yourself then, Have the client read the material