1. A 10 year old who has sustained a head injury is brought to the emergency department by his mother. A diagnosis of a mild concussion is made. At the time of discharge, nurse Ron should instruct the mother to:

Withhold food and fluids for 24 hours.
Allow him to play outdoors with his friends.
Arrange for a follow up visit with the child’s primary care provider in one week.
Check for any change in responsiveness every two hours until the follow-up visit.
2. A male client has suffered a motor accident and is now suffering from hypovolemic shock. Nurse Helen should frequency assess the client’s vital signs during the compensatory stage of shock, because:

Arteriolar constriction occurs
The cardiac workload decreases
Decreased contractility of the heart occurs
The parasympathetic nervous system is triggered
3. A paranoid male client with schizophrenia is losing weight, reluctant to eat, and voicing concerns about being poisoned. The best intervention by nurse Dina would be to:

Allow the client to open canned or pre-packaged food
Restrict the client to his room until 2 lbs are gained
Have a staff member personally taste all of the client’s food
Tell the client the food has been x-rayed by the staff and is safe
4. One day the mother of a young adult confides to nurse Frida that she is very troubled by he child’s emotional illness. The nurse’s most therapeutic initial response would be:

“You may be able to lessen your feelings of guilt by seeking counseling”
“It would be helpful if you become involved in volunteer work at this time”
“I recognize it’s hard to deal with this, but try to remember that this too shall pass”
“Joining a support group of parents who are coping with this problem can be quite helpful.
5. To check for wound hemorrhage after a client has had a surgery for the removal of a tumor in the neck, nurse grace should:

Loosen an edge of the dressing and lift it to see the wound
Observe the dressing at the back of the neck for the presence of blood
Outline the blood as it appears on the dressing to observe any progression
Press gently around the incision to express accumulated blood from the wound
6. A 16-year-old primigravida arrives at the labor and birthing unit in her 38th week of gestation and states that she is labor. To verify that the client is in true labor nurse Trina should:

Obtain sides for a fern test
Time any uterine contractions
Prepare her for a pelvic examination
Apply nitrazine paper to moist vaginal tissue
7. As part of the diagnostic workup for pulmonic stenosis, a child has cardiac catheterization. Nurse Julius is aware that children with pulmonic stenosis have increased pressure:

In the pulmonary vein
In the pulmonary artery
On the left side of the heart
On the right side of the heart
8. An obese client asks nurse Julius how to lose weight. Before answering, the nurse should remember that long-term weight loss occurs best when:

Eating patterns are altered
Fats are limited in the diet
Carbohydrates are regulated
Exercise is a major component
9. As a very anxious female client is talking to the nurse May, she starts crying. She appears to be upset that she cannot control her crying. The most appropriate response by the nurse would be:

“Is talking about your problem upsetting you?”
“It is Ok to cry; I’ll just stay with you for now”
“You look upset; lets talk about why you are crying.”
“Sometimes it helps to get it out of your system.”
10. A patient has partial-thickness burns to both legs and portions of his trunk. Which of the following I.V. fluids is given first?

Albumin
D5W
Lactated Ringer’s solution
0.9% sodium chloride solution with 2 mEq of potassium per 100 ml
11. During the first 48 hours after a severe burn of 40% of the clients body surface, the nurse’s assessment should include observations for water intoxication. Associated adaptations include:

Sooty-colored sputum
Frothy pink-tinged sputum
Twitching and disorientation
Urine output below 30ml per hour
12. After a muscle biopsy, nurse Willy should teach the client to:

Change the dressing as needed
Resume the usual diet as soon as desired
Bathe or shower according to preference
Expect a rise in body temperature for 48 hours
13. Before a client whose left hand has been amputated can be fitted for a prosthesis, nurse Joy is aware that:

Arm and shoulder muscles must be developed
Shrinkage of the residual limb must be completed
Dexterity in the other extremity must be achieved
Full adjustment to the altered body image must have occurred
14. Nurse Cathy applies a fetal monitor to the abdomen of a client in active labor. When the client has contractions, the nurse notes a 15 beat per minute deceleration of the fetal heart rate below the baseline lasting 15 seconds. Nurse Cathy should:

Change the maternal position
Prepare for an immediate birth
Call the physician immediately
Obtain the client’s blood pressure
15. A male client receiving prolonged steroid therapy complains of always being thirsty and urinating frequently. The best initial action by the nurse would be to:

Perform a finger stick to test the client’s blood glucose level
Have the physician assess the client for an enlarged prostate
Obtain a urine specimen from the client for screening purposes
Assess the client’s lower extremities for the presence of pitting edema
16. Nurse Bea recognizes that a pacemaker is indicated when a client is experiencing:

Angina
Chest pain
Heart block
Tachycardia
17. When administering pancrelipase (Pancreases capsules) to child with cystic fibrosis, nurse Faith knows they should be given:

With meals and snacks
Every three hours while awake
On awakening, following meals, and at bedtime
After each bowel movement and after postural draianage
18. A preterm neonate is receiving oxygen by an overhead hood. During the time the infant is under the hood, it would be appropriate for nurse Gian to:

Hydrate the infant q15 min
Put a hat on the infant’s head
Keep the oxygen concentration consistent
Remove the infant q15 min for stimulation
19. A client’s sputum smears for acid fast bacilli (AFB) are positive, and transmission-based airborne precautions are ordered. Nurse Kyle should instruct visitors to:

Limit contact with non-exposed family members
Avoid contact with any objects present in the client’s room
Wear an Ultra-Filter mask when they are in the client’s room
Put on a gown and gloves before going into the client’s room
20. A client with a head injury has a fixed, dilated right pupil; responds only to painful stimuli; and exhibits decorticate posturing. Nurse Kate should recognize that these are signs of:

Meningeal irritation
Subdural hemorrhage
Medullary compression
Cerebral cortex compression
21. After a lateral crushing chest injury, obvious right-sided paradoxic motion of the client’s chest demonstrates multiple rib fraactures, resulting in a flail chest. The complication the nurse should carefully observe for would be:

Mediastinal shift
Tracheal laceration
Open pneumothorax
Pericardial tamponade
22. When planning care for a client at 30-weeks gestation, admitted to the hospital after vaginal bleeding secondary to placenta previa, the nurse’s primary objective would be:

Provide a calm, quiet environment
Prepare the client for an immediate cesarean birth
Prevent situations that may stimulate the cervix or uterus
Ensure that the client has regular cervical examinations assess for labor
23. When planning discharge teaching for a young female client who has had a pneumothorax, it is important that the nurse include the signs and symptoms of a pneumothorax and teach the client to seek medical assistance if she experiences:

Substernal chest pain
Episodes of palpitation
Severe shortness of breath
Dizziness when standing up
24. After a laryngectomy, the most important equipment to place at the client’s bedside would be:

Suction equipment
Humidified oxygen
A nonelectric call bell
A cold-stream vaporizer
25. Nurse Oliver interviews a young female client with anorexia nervosa to obtain information for the nursing history. The client’s history is likely to reveal a:

Strong desire to improve her body image
Close, supportive mother-daughter relationship
Satisfaction with and desire to maintain her present weight
Low level of achievement in school, with little concerns for grades
26. Nurse Bea should plan to assist a client with an obsessive-compulsive disorder to control the use of ritualistic behavior by:
Providing repetitive activities that require little thought
Attempting to reduce or limit situations that increase anxiety
Getting the client involved with activities that will provide distraction
Suggesting that the client perform menial tasks to expiate feelings of guilt
27. A 2 ½ year old child undergoes a ventriculoperitoneal shunt revision. Before discharge, nurse John, knowing the expected developmental behaviors for this age group, should tell the parents to call the physician if the child:

Tries to copy all the father’s mannerisms
Talks incessantly regardless of the presence of others
Becomes fussy when frustrated and displays a shortened attention span
Frequently starts arguments with playmates by claiming all toys are “mine”
28. A urinary tract infection is a potential danger with an indwelling catheter. Nurse Gina can best plan to avoid this complication by:

Assessing urine specific gravity
Maintaining the ordered hydration
Collecting a weekly urine specimen
Emptying the drainage bag frequently
29. A client has sustained a fractured right femur in a fall on stairs. Nurse Troy with the emergency response team assess for signs of circulatory impairment by:

Turning the client to side lying position
Asking the client to cough and deep breathe
Taking the client’s pedal pulse in the affected limb
Instructing the client to wiggle the toes of the right foot
30. To assess orientation to place in a client suspected of having dementia of the alzheimers type, nurse Chris should ask:

“Where are you?”
“Who brought you here?”
“Do you know where you are?”
“How long have you been there?”
31. Nurse Mary assesses a postpartum client who had an abruption placentae and suspects that disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is occurring when assessments demonstrate:

A boggy uterus
Multiple vaginal clots
Hypotension and tachycardia
Bleeding from the venipuncture site
32. When a client on labor experiences the urge to push a 9cm dilation, the breathing pattern that nurse Rhea should instruct the client to use is the:

Expulsion pattern
Slow paced pattern
Shallow chest pattern
blowing pattern
33. Nurse Ronald should explain that the most beneficial between-meal snack for a client who is recovering from the full-thickness burns would be a:

Cheeseburger and a malted
Piece of blueberry pie and milk
Bacon and tomato sandwich and tea
Chicken salad sandwich and soft drink
34. Nurse Wilma recognizes that failure of a newborn to make the appropriate adaptation to extrauterine life would be indicated by:

flexed extremities
Cyanotic lips and face
A heart rate of 130 beats per minute
A respiratory rate of 40 breath per minute
35. The laboratory calls to state that a client’s lithium level is 1.9 mEq/L after 10 days of lithium therapy. Nurse Reese should:

Notify the physician of the findings because the level is dangerously high
Monitor the client closely because the level of lithium in the blood is slightly elevated
Continue to administer the medication as ordered because the level is within the therapeutic range
Report the findings to the physician so the dosage can be increased because the level is below therapeutic range
36. A client has a regular 30-day menstrual cycles. When teaching about the rhythm method, Which the client and her husband have chosen to use for family planning, nurse Dianne should emphasize that the client’s most fertile days are:

Days 9 to 11
Days 12 to 14
Days 15 to 17
Days 18 to 20
37. Before an amniocentesis, nurse Alexandra should:

Initiate the intravenous therapy as ordered by the physiscian
Inform the client that the procedure could precipitate an infection
Assure that informed consent has been obtained from the client
Perform a vaginal examination on the client to assess cervical dilation
38. While a client is on intravenous magnesium sulfate therapy for preeclampsia, it is essential for nurse Amy to monitor the client’s deep tendon reflexes to:

Determine her level of consciousness
Evaluate the mobility of the extremities
Determine her response to painful stimuli
Prevent development of respiratory distress
39. A preschooler is admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of acute glomerulonephritis. The child’s history reveals a 5-pound weight gain in one week and peritoneal edema. For the most accurate information on the status of the child’s edema, nursing intervention should include:

Obtaining the child’s daily weight
Doing a visual inspection of the child
Measuring the child’s intake and output
Monitoring the child’s electrolyte values
40. Nurse Mickey is administering dexamethasome (Decadron) for the early management of a client’s cerebral edema. This treatment is effective because:

Acts as hyperosmotic diuretic
Increases tissue resistance to infection
Reduces the inflammatory response of tissues
Decreases the information of cerebrospinal fluid
41. During newborn nursing assessment, a positive Ortolani’s sign would be indicated by:

A unilateral droop of hip
A broadening of the perineum
An apparent shortening of one leg
An audible click on hip manipulation
42. When caring for a dying client who is in the denial stage of grief, the best nursing approach would be to:

Agree and encourage the client’s denial
Allow the denial but be available to discuss death
Reassure the client that everything will be OK
Leave the client alone to confront the feelings of impending loss
43. To decrease the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), the physician orders dietary and medication management. Nurse Helen should teach the client that the meal alteration that would be most appropriate would be:

Ingest foods while they are hot
Divide food into four to six meals a day
Eat the last of three meals daily by 8pm
Suck a peppermint candy after each meal
44. After a mastectomy or hysterectomy, clients may feel incomplete as women. The statement that should alert nurse Gina to this feeling would be:

“I can’t wait to see all my friends again”
“I feel washed out; there isn’t much left”
“I can’t wait to get home to see my grandchild”
“My husband plans for me to recuperate at our daughter’s home”
45. A client with obstruction of the common bile duct may show a prolonged bleeding and clotting time because:

Vitamin K is not absorbed
The ionized calcium levels falls
The extrinsic factor is not absorbed
Bilirubin accumulates in the plasma
46. Realizing that the hypokalemia is a side effect of steroid therapy, nurse Monette should monitor a client taking steroid medication for:

Hyperactive reflexes
An increased pulse rate
Nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea
Leg weakness with muscle cramps
47. When assessing a newborn suspected of having Down syndrome, nurse Rey would expect to observe:

long thin fingers
Large, protruding ears
Hypertonic neck muscles
Simian lines on the hands
48. A 10 year old girl is admitted to the pediatric unit for recurrent pain and swelling of her joints, particularly her knees and ankles. Her diagnosis is juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Nurse Janah recognizes that besides joint inflammation, a unique manifestation of the rheumatoid process involves the:

Ears
Eyes
Liver
Brain
49. A disturbed client is scheduled to begin group therapy. The client refuses to attend. Nurse Lolit should:

Accept the client’s decision without discussion
Have another client to ask the client to consider
Tell the client that attendance at the meeting is required
Insist that the client join the group to help the socialization process
50. Because a severely depressed client has not responded to any of the antidepressant medications, the psychiatrist decides to try electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). Before the treatment the nurse should:

Have the client speak with other clients receiving ECT
Give the client a detailed explanation of the entire procedure
Limit the client’s intake to a light breakfast on the days of the treatment
Provide a simple explanation of the procedure and continue to reassure the client
51. Nurse Vicky is aware that teaching about colostomy care is understood when the client states, “I will contact my physician and report ____”:

If I notice a loss of sensation to touch in the stoma tissue”
When mucus is passed from the stoma between irrigations”
The expulsion of flatus while the irrigating fluid is running out”
If I have difficulty in inserting the irrigating tube into the stoma”
52. The client’s history that alerts nurse Henry to assess closely for signs of postpartum infection would be:

Three spontaneous abortions
negative maternal blood type
Blood loss of 850 ml after a vaginal birth
Maternal temperature of 99.9° F 12 hours after delivery
53. A client is experiencing stomatitis as a result of chemotherapy. An appropriate nursing intervention related to this condition would be to:

Provide frequent saline mouthwashes
Use karaya powder to decrease irritation
Increase fluid intake to compensate for the diarrhea
Provide meticulous skin care of the abdomen with Betadine
54. During a group therapy session, one of the clients ask a male client with the diagnosis of antisocial personality disorder why he is in the hospital. Considering this client’s type of personality disorder, the nurse might expect him to respond:

“I need a lot of help with my troubles”
“Society makes people react in old ways”
“I decided that it’s time I own up to my problems”
“My life needs straightening out and this might help”
55. A child visits the clinic for a 6-week checkup after a tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy. In addition to assessing hearing, the nurse should include an assessment of the child’s:

Taste and smell
Taste and speech
Swallowing and smell
Swallowing and speech
56. A client is diagnosed with cancer of the jaw. A course of radiation therapy is to be followed by surgery. The client is concerned about the side effects related to the radiation treaments. Nurse Ria should explain that the major side effects that will experienced is:

Fatigue
Alopecia
Vomiting
Leucopenia
57. Nurse Katrina prepares an older-adult client for sleep, actions are taken to help reduce the likelihood of a fall during the night. Targeting the most frequent cause of falls, the nurse should:

Offer the client assistance to the bathroom
Move the bedside table closer to the client’s bed
Encourage the client to take an available sedative
Assist the client to telephone the spouse to say “goodnight”
58. When evaluating a growth and development of a 6 month old infant, nurse Patty would expect the infant to be able to:

Sit alone, display pincer grasp, wave bye bye
Pull self to a standing position, release a toy by choice, play peek-a-boo
Crawl, transfer toy from one hand to the other, display of fear of strangers
Turn completely over, sit momentarily without support, reach to be picked up
59. A breastfeeding mother asks the nurse what she can do to ease the discomfort caused by a cracked nipple. Nurse Tina should instruct the client to:

Manually express milk and feed it to the baby in a bottle
Stop breastfeeding for two days to allow the nipple to heal
Use a breast shield to keep the baby from direct contact with the nipple
Feed the baby on the unaffected breast first until the affected breast heals
60. Nurse Sandy observes that there is blood coming from the client’s ear after head injury. Nurse Sandy should:

Turn the client to the unaffected side
Cleanse the client’s ear with sterile gauze
Test the drainage from the client’s ear with Dextrostix
Place sterile cotton loosely in the external ear of the client
61. Nurse Gio plans a long term care for parents of children with sickle-cell anemia, which includes periodic group conferences. Some of the discussions should be directed towards:

Finding special school facilities for the child
Making plans for moving to a more therapeutic climate
Choosing a means of birth control to avoid future pregnancies
Airing their feelings regarding the transmission of the disease to the child
62. The central problem the nurse might face with a disturbed schizophrenic client is the client’s:

Suspicious feelings
Continuous pacing
Relationship with the family
Concern about working with others
63. When planning care with a client during the postoperative recovery period following an abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, nurse Frida should include the explanation that:

Surgical menopause will occur
Urinary retention is a common problem
Weight gain is expected, and dietary plan are needed
Depression is normal and should be expected
64. An adolescent client with anorexia nervosa refuses to eat, stating, “I’ll get too fat.” Nurse Andrea can best respond to this behavior initially by:

Not talking about the fact that the client is not eating
Stopping all of the client’s priviledges until food is eaten
Telling the client that tube feeding will eventually be necessary
Pointing out to the client that death can occur with malnutrition.
65. A pain scale is used to assess the degree of pain. The client rates the pain as an 8 on a scale of 10 before medication and a 7 on a scale of 10 after being medicated. Nurse Glenda determines that the:

Client has a low pain tolerance
Medication is not adequately effective
Medication has sufficiently decreased the pain level
Client needs more education about the use of the pain scale
66. To enhance a neonate’s behavioral development, therapeutic nursing measures should include:

Keeping the baby awake for longer periods of time before each feeding
Assisting the parents to stimulate their baby through touch, sound, and sight.
Encouraging parental contact for at least one 15-minute period every four hours.
Touching and talking to the baby at least hourly, beginning within two to four hours after birth
67. Before formulating a plan of care for a 6 year old boy with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), nurse Kyla is aware that the initial aim of therapy is to help the client to:

Develop language skills
Avoid his own regressive behavior
Mainstream into a regular class in school
Recognize himself as an independent person of worth
68. Nurse Wally knows that the most important aspect of the preoperative care for a child with Wilms’ tumor would be:

Checking the size of the child’s liver
Monitoring the child’s blood pressure
Maintaining the child in a prone position
Collecting the child’s urine for culture and sensitivity
69. At 11:00 pm the count of hydrocodone (Vicodin) is incorrect. After several minutes of searching the medication cart and medication administration records, no explanation can be found. The primary nurse should notify the:

Nursing unit manager
Hospital administrator
Quality control manager
Physician ordering the medication
70. When caring for the a client with a pneumothorax, who has a chest tube in place, nurse Kate should plan to:

Administer cough suppressants at appropriate intervals as ordered
Empty and measure the drainage in the collection chamber each shift
Apply clamps below the insertion site when ever getting the client out of bed
Encourage coughing, deep breathing, and range of motion to the arm on the affected side
71. According to C.E.Winslow, which of the following is the goal of Public Health?

For people to attain their birthrights of health and longevity
For promotion of health and prevention of disease
For people to have access to basic health services
For people to be organized in their health efforts
72. What other statistic may be used to determine attainment of longevity?

Age-specific mortality rate
Proportionate mortality rate
Swaroop’s index
Case fatality rate
73. Which of the following is the most prominent feature of public health nursing?

It involves providing home care to sick people who are not confined in the hospital
Services are provided free of charge to people within the catchment area.
The public health nurse functions as part of a team providing a public health nursing services.
Public health nursing focuses on preventive, not curative, services.
74. Which of the following is the mission of the Department of Health?

Health for all Filipinos
Ensure the accessibility and quality of health care
Improve the general health status of the population
Health in the hands of the Filipino people by the year 2020
75. Nurse Pauline determines whether resources were maximized in implementing Ligtas Tigdas, she is evaluating:

Effectiveness
Efficiency
Adequacy
Appropriateness
76. Lissa is a B.S.N. graduate. She want to become a Public Health Nurse. Where will she apply?

Department of Health
Provincial Health Office
Regional Health Office
Rural Health Unit
77. As an epidemiologist, Nurse Celeste is responsible for reporting cases of notifiable diseases. What law mandates reporting of cases of notifiable diseases?

Act 3573
R.A. 3753
R.A. 1054
R.A. 1082
78. Nurse Fay is aware that isolation of a child with measles belongs to what level of prevention?

Primary
Secondary
Intermediate
Tertiary
79. Nurse Gina is aware that the following is an advantage of a home visit?

It allows the nurse to provide nursing care to a greater number of people.
It provides an opportunity to do first hand appraisal of the home situation.
It allows sharing of experiences among people with similar health problems.
It develops the family’s initiative in providing for health needs of its members.
80. The PHN bag is an important tool in providing nursing care during a home visit. The most important principle of bag technique states that it:

Should save time and effort.
Should minimize if not totally prevent the spread of infection.
Should not overshadow concern for the patient and his family.
May be done in a variety of ways depending on the home situation, etc.
81. Nurse Willy reads about Path Goal theory. Which of the following behaviors is manifested by the leader who uses this theory?

Recognizes staff for going beyond expectations by giving them citations
Challenges the staff to take individual accountability for their own practice
Admonishes staff for being laggards
Reminds staff about the sanctions for non performance
82. Nurse Cathy learns that some leaders are transactional leaders. Which of the following does NOT characterize a transactional leader?

Focuses on management tasks
Is a caretaker
Uses trade-offs to meet goals
Inspires others with vision
83. Functional nursing has some advantages, which one is an EXCEPTION?

Psychological and sociological needs are emphasized.
Great control of work activities.
Most economical way of delivering nursing services.
Workers feel secure in dependent role
84. Which of the following is the best guarantee that the patient’s priority needs are met?

Checking with the relative of the patient
Preparing a nursing care plan in collaboration with the patient
Consulting with the physician
Coordinating with other members of the team
85. Nurse Tony stresses the need for all the employees to follow orders and instructions from him and not from anyone else. Which of the following principles does he refer to?

Scalar chain
Discipline
Unity of command
Order
86. Nurse Joey discusses the goal of the department. Which of the following statements is a goal?

Increase the patient satisfaction rate
Eliminate the incidence of delayed administration of medications
Establish rapport with patients
Reduce response time to two minutes
87. Nurse Lou considers shifting to transformational leadership. Which of the following statements best describes this type of leadership?

Uses visioning as the essence of leadership
Serves the followers rather than being served
Maintains full trust and confidence in the subordinates
Possesses innate charisma that makes others feel good in his presence.
88. Nurse Mae tells one of the staff, “I don’t have time to discuss the matter with you now. See me in my office later” when the latter asks if they can talk about an issue. Which of the following conflict resolution strategies did she use?

Smoothing
Compromise
Avoidance
Restriction
89. Nurse Bea plans of assigning competent people to fill the roles designed in the hierarchy. Which process refers to this?

Staffing
Scheduling
Recruitment
Induction
90. Nurse Linda tries to design an organizational structure that allows communication to flow in all directions and involve workers in decision making. Which form of organizational structure is this?

Centralized
Decentralized
Matrix
Informal
91. When documenting information in a client’s medical record, the nurse should:

erase any errors.
use a #2 pencil.
leave one line blank before each new entry.
end each entry with the nurse’s signature and title.
92. Which of the following factors are major components of a client’s general background drug history?

Allergies and socioeconomic status
Urine output and allergies
Gastric reflex and age
Bowel habits and allergies
93. Which procedure or practice requires surgical asepsis?

Hand washing
Nasogastric tube irrigation
I.V. cannula insertion
Colostomy irrigation
94. The nurse is performing wound care using surgical asepsis. Which of the following practices violates surgical asepsis?

Holding sterile objects above the waist
Pouring solution onto a sterile field cloth
Considering a 1″ (2.5-cm) edge around the sterile field contaminated
Opening the outermost flap of a sterile package away from the body
95. On admission, a client has the following arterial blood gas (ABG) values: PaO2, 50 mm Hg; PaCO2, 70 mm Hg; pH, 7.20; HCO3–, 28 mEq/L. Based on these values, the nurse should formulate which nursing diagnosis for this client?

Risk for deficient fluid volume
Deficient fluid volume
Impaired gas exchange
Metabolic acidosis
96. The use of larvivorous fish in malaria control is the basis for which strategy of malaria control?

Stream seeding
Stream clearing
Destruction of breeding places
Zooprophylaxis
97. In Integrated Management of Childhood Illness, severe conditions generally require urgent referral to a hospital. Which of the following severe conditions DOES NOT always require urgent referral to a hospital?

Mastoiditis
Severe dehydration
Severe pneumonia
Severe febrile disease
98. A mother brought her daughter, 4 years old, to the RHU because of cough and colds. Following the IMCI assessment guide, which of the following is a danger sign that indicates the need for urgent referral to a hospital?

Inability to drink
High grade fever
Signs of severe dehydration
Cough for more than 30 days
99. Food fortification is one of the strategies to prevent micronutrient deficiency conditions. R.A. 8976 mandates fortification of certain food items. Which of the following is among these food items?

Sugar
Bread
Margarine
Filled milk
100. The major sign of iron deficiency anemia is pallor. What part is best examined for pallor?

Palms
Nailbeds
Around the lips
Lower conjunctival sac