1. A woman in a child bearing age receives a rubella vaccination. Nurse Joy would give her which of the following instructions?

Refrain from eating eggs or egg products for 24 hours
Avoid having sexual intercourse
Don’t get pregnant at least 3 months
Avoid exposure to sun
2. Jonas who is diagnosed with encephalitis is under the treatment of Mannitol. Which of the following patient outcomes indicate to Nurse Ronald that the treatment of Mannitol has been effective for a patient that has increased intracranial pressure?

Increased urinary output
Decreased RR
Slowed papillary response
Decreased level of consciousness
3. Mary asked Nurse Maureen about the incubation period of rabies. Which statement by the Nurse Maureen is appropriate?

Incubation period is 6 months
Incubation period is 1 week
Incubation period is 1 month
Incubation period varies depending on the site of the bite
4. Which of the following should Nurse Cherry do first in taking care of a male client with rabies?

Encourage the patient to take a bath
Cover IV bottle with brown paper bag
Place the patient near the comfort room
Place the patient near the door
5. Which of the following is the screening test for dengue hemorrhagic fever?

Complete blood count
ELISA
Rumpel-leede test
Sedimentation rate
6. Mr. Dela Rosa is suspected to have malaria after a business trip in Palawan. The most important diagnostic test in malaria is:

WBC count
Urinalysis
ELISA
Peripheral blood smear
7. The Nurse supervisor is planning for patient’s assignment for the AM shift. The nurse supervisor avoids assigning which of the following staff members to a client with herpes zoster?

Nurse who never had chicken pox
Nurse who never had roseola
Nurse who never had german measles
Nurse who never had mumps
8. Clarissa is 7 weeks pregnant. Further examination revealed that she is susceptible to rubella. When would be the most appropriate for her to receive rubella immunization?

At once
During 2nd trimester
During 3rd trimester
After the delivery of the baby
9. A female child with rubella should be isolated from a:

21 year old male cousin living in the same house
18 year old sister who recently got married
11 year old sister who had rubeola during childhood
4 year old girl who lives next door
10. What is the primary prevention of leprosy?

Nutrition
Vitamins
BCG vaccination
DPT vaccination
11. A bacteria which causes diphtheria is also known as?

Amoeba
Cholera
Klebs-loeffler bacillus
Spirochete
12. Nurse Ron performed mantoux skin test today (Monday) to a male adult client. Which statement by the client indicates that he understood the instruction well?

I will come back later
I will come back next month
I will come back on Friday
I will come back on Wednesday, same time, to read the result
13. A male client had undergone Mantoux skin test. Nurse Ronald notes an 8mm area of indurations at the site of the skin test. The nurse interprets the result as:

Negative
Uncertain and needs to be repeated
Positive
Inconclusive
14. Tony will start a 6 month therapy with Isoniazid (INH). Nurse Trish plans to teach the client to:

Use alcohol moderately
Avoid vitamin supplements while o therapy
Incomplete intake of dairy products
May be discontinued if symptoms subsides
15. Which is the primary characteristic lesion of syphilis?

Sore eyes
Sore throat
Chancroid
Chancre
16. What is the fast breathing of Jana who is 3 weeks old?

60 breaths per minute
40 breaths per minute
10 breaths per minute
20 breaths per minute
17. Which of the following signs and symptoms indicate some dehydration?

Drinks eagerly
Restless and irritable
Unconscious
A and B
18. What is the first line for dysentery?

Amoxicillin
Tetracycline
Cefalexin
Cotrimoxazole
19. In home made oresol, what is the ratio of salt and sugar if you want to prepare with 1 liter of water?

1 tbsp. salt and 8 tbsp. sugar
1 tbsp. salt and 8 tsp. sugar
1 tsp. salt and 8 tsp. sugar
8 tsp. salt and 8 tsp. sugar
20. Gentian Violet is used for:

Wound
Umbilical infections
Ear infections
Burn
21. Which of the following is a live attenuated bacterial vaccine?

BCG
OPV
Measles
None of the above
22. EPI is based on?

Basic health services
Scope of community affected
Epidemiological situation
Research studies
23. TT? provides how many percentage of protection against tetanus?

100
99
80
90
24. Temperature of refrigerator to maintain potency of measles and OPV vaccine is:

-3c to -8c
-15c to -25c
+15c to +25c
+3c to +8c
25. Diptheria is a:

Bacterial toxin
Killed bacteria
Live attenuated
Plasma derivatives
26. Budgeting is under in which part of management process?

Directing
Controlling
Organizing
Planning
27. Time table showing planned work days and shifts of nursing personnel is:

Staffing
Schedule
Scheduling
Planning
28. A force within an individual that influences the strength of behavior?

Motivation
Envy
Reward
Self-esteem
29. “To be the leading hospital in the Philippines” is best illustrate in:

Mission
Philosophy
Vision
Objective
30. It is the professionally desired norms against which a staff performance will be compared?

Job descriptions
Survey
Flow chart
Standards
31. Reprimanding a staff nurse for work that is done incorrectly is an example of what type of reinforcement?

Feedback
Positive reinforcement
Performance appraisal
Negative reinforcement
32. Questions that are answerable only by choosing an option from a set of given alternatives are known as?

Survey
Close ended
Questionnaire
Demographic
33. A researcher that makes a generalization based on observations of an individuals behavior is said to be which type of reasoning:

Inductive
Logical
Illogical
Deductive
34. The balance of a research’s benefit vs. its risks to the subject is:

Analysis
Risk-benefit ratio
Percentile
Maximum risk
35. An individual/object that belongs to a general population is a/an:

Element
Subject
Respondent
Author
36. An illustration that shows how the members of an organization are connected:

Flowchart
Bar graph
Organizational chart
Line graph
37. The first college of nursing that was established in the Philippines is:

Fatima University
Far Eastern University
University of the East
University of Sto. Tomas
38. Florence nightingale is born on:

France
Britain
U.S
Italy
39. Objective data is also called:

Covert
Overt
Inference
Evaluation
40. An example of subjective data is:

Size of wounds
VS
Lethargy
The statement of patient “My hand is painful”
41. What is the best position in palpating the breast?

Trendelenburg
Side lying
Supine
Lithotomy
42. When is the best time in performing breast self examination?

7 days after menstrual period
7 days before menstrual period
5 days after menstrual period
5 days before menstrual period
43. Which of the following should be given the highest priority before performing physical examination to a patient?

Preparation of the room
Preparation of the patient
Preparation of the nurse
Preparation of environment
44. It is a flip over card usually kept in portable file at nursing station.

Nursing care plan
Medicine and treatment record
Kardex
TPR sheet
45. Jose has undergone thoracentesis. The nurse in charge is aware that the best position for Jose is:

Semi fowlers
Low fowlers
Side lying, unaffected side
Side lying, affected side
46. The degree of patients abdominal distension may be determined by:

Auscultation
Palpation
Inspection
Percussion
47. A male client is addicted with hallucinogen. Which physiologic effect should the nurse expect?

Bradyprea
Bradycardia
Constricted pupils
Dilated pupils
48. Tristan a 4 year old boy has suffered from full thickness burns of the face, chest and neck. What will be the priority nursing diagnosis?

Ineffective airway clearance related to edema
Impaired mobility related to pain
Impaired urinary elimination related to fluid loss
Risk for infection related to epidermal disruption
49. In assessing a client’s incision 1 day after the surgery, Nurse Betty expect to see which of the following as signs of a local inflammatory response?

Greenish discharge
Brown exudates at incision edges
Pallor around sutures
Redness and warmth
50. Nurse Ronald is aware that the amiotic fluid in the third trimester weighs approximately:

2 kilograms
1 kilograms
100 grams
1.5 kilograms
51. After delivery of a baby girl. Nurse Gina examines the umbilical cord and expects to find a cord to:

Two arteries and two veins
One artery and one vein
Two arteries and one vein
One artery and two veins
52. Myrna a pregnant client reports that her last menstrual cycle is July 11, her expected date of birth is

November 4
November 11
April 4
April 18
53. Which of the following is not a good source of iron?

Butter
Pechay
Grains
Beef
54. Maureen is admitted with a diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy. Which of the following would you anticipate?

NPO
Bed rest
Immediate surgery
Enema
55. Gina a postpartum client is diagnosed with endometritis. Which position would you expect to place her based on this diagnosis?

Supine
Left side lying
Trendelinburg
Semi-fowlers
56. Nurse Hazel knows that Myrna understands her condition well when she remarks that urinary frequency is caused by:

Pressure caused by the ascending uterus
Water intake of 3L a day
Effect of cold weather
Increase intake of fruits and vegetables
57. How many ml of blood is loss during the first 24 hours post delivery of Myrna?

100
500
200
400
58. Which of the following hormones stimulates the secretion of milk?

Progesterone
Prolactin
Oxytocin
Estrogen
59. Nurse Carla is aware that Myla’s second stage of labor is beginning when the following assessment is noted:

Bay of water is broken
Contractions are regular
Cervix is completely dilated
Presence of bloody show
60. The leaking fluid is tested with nitrazine paper. Nurse Kelly confirms that the client’s membrane have ruptures when the paper turns into a:

Pink
Violet
Green
Blue
61. After amniotomy, the priority nursing action is:

Document the color and consistency of amniotic fluid
Listen the fetal heart tone
Position the mother in her left side
Let the mother rest
62. Which is the most frequent reason for postpartum hemorrhage?

Perineal lacerations
Frequent internal examination (IE)
CS
Uterine atomy
63. On 2nd postpartum day, which height would you expect to find the fundus in a woman who has had a caesarian birth?

1 finger above umbilicus
2 fingers above umbilicus
2 fingers below umbilicus
1 finger below umbilicus
64. Which of the following criteria allows Nurse Kris to perform home deliveries?

Normal findings during assessment
Previous CS
Diabetes history
Hypertensive history
65. Nurse Carla is aware that one of the following vaccines is done by intramuscular (IM) injection?

Measles
OPV
BCG
Tetanus toxoid
66. Asin law is on which legal basis:

RA 8860
RA 2777
RI 8172
RR 6610
67. Nurse John is aware that the herbal medicine appropriate for urolithiasis is:

Akapulco
Sambong
Tsaang gubat
Bayabas
68. Community/Public health bag is defined as:

An essential and indispensable equipment of the community health nurse during home visit
It contains drugs and equipment used by the community health nurse
Is a requirement in the health center and for home visit
It is a tool used by the community health nurse in rendering effective procedures during home visit
69. TT4 provides how many percentage of protection against tetanus?

70
80
90
99
70. Third postpartum visit must be done by public health nurse:

Within 24 hours after delivery
After 2-4 weeks
Within 1 week
After 2 months
71. Nurse Candy is aware that the family planning method that may give 98% protection to another pregnancy to women

Pills
Tubal ligation
Lactational Amenorrhea method (LAM)
IUD
72. Which of the following is not a part of IMCI case management process

Counsel the mother
Identify the illness
Assess the child
Treat the child
73. If a young child has pneumonia when should the mother bring him back for follow up?

After 2 days
In the afternoon
After 4 days
After 5 days
74. It is the certification recognition program that develop and promotes standard for health facilities:

Formula
Tutok gamutan
Sentrong program movement
Sentrong sigla movement
75. Baby Marie was born May 23, 1984. Nurse John will expect finger thumb opposition on:

April 1985
February 1985
March 1985
June 1985
76. Baby Reese is a 12 month old child. Nurse Oliver would anticipate how many teeth?

9
7
8
6
77. Which of the following is the primary antidote for Tylenol poisoning?

Narcan
Digoxin
Acetylcysteine
Flumazenil
78. A male child has an intelligence quotient of approximately 40. Which kind of environment and interdisciplinary program most likely to benefit this child would be best described as:

Habit training
Sheltered workshop
Custodial
Educational
79. Nurse Judy is aware that following condition would reflect presence of congenital G.I anomaly?

Cord prolapse
Polyhydramios
Placenta previa
Oligohydramios
80. Nurse Christine provides health teaching for the parents of a child diagnosed with celiac disease. Nurse Christine teaches the parents to include which of the following food items in the child’s diet:

Rye toast
Oatmeal
White bread
Rice
81. Nurse Randy is planning to administer oral medication to a 3 year old child. Nurse Randy is aware that the best way to proceed is by:

“Would you like to drink your medicine?”
“If you take your medicine now, I’ll give you lollipop”
“See the other boy took his medicine? Now it’s your turn.”
“Here’s your medicine. Would you like a mango or orange juice?”
82. At what age a child can brush her teeth without help?

6 years
7 years
5 years
8 years
83. Ribivarin (Virazole) is prescribed for a female hospitalized child with RSV. Nurse Judy prepare this medication via which route?

Intra venous
Oral
Oxygen tent
Subcutaneous
84. The present chairman of the Board of Nursing in the Philippines is:

Maria Joanna Cervantes
Carmencita Abaquin
Leonor Rosero
Primitiva Paquic
85. The obligation to maintain efficient ethical standards in the practice of nursing belong to this body:

BON
ANSAP
PNA
RN
86. A male nurse was found guilty of negligence. His license was revoked. Re-issuance of revoked certificates is after how many years?

1 year
2 years
3 years
4 years
87. Which of the following information cannot be seen in the PRC identification card?

Registration Date
License Number
Date of Application
Signature of PRC chairperson
88. Breastfeeding is being enforced by milk code or:

EO 51
R.A. 7600
R.A. 6700
P.D. 996
89. Self governance, ability to choose or carry out decision without undue pressure or coercion from anyone:

Veracity
Autonomy
Fidelity
Beneficence
90. A male patient complained because his scheduled surgery was cancelled because of earthquake. The hospital personnel may be excused because of:

Governance
Respondent superior
Force majeure
Res ipsa loquitor
91. Being on time, meeting deadlines and completing all scheduled duties is what virtue?

Fidelity
Autonomy
Veracity
Confidentiality
92. This quality is being demonstrated by Nurse Ron who raises the side rails of a confused and disoriented patient?

Responsibility
Resourcefulness
Autonomy
Prudence
93. Which of the following is formal continuing education?

Conference
Enrollment in graduate school
Refresher course
Seminar
94. The BSN curriculum prepares the graduates to become?

Nurse generalist
Nurse specialist
Primary health nurse
Clinical instructor
95. Disposal of medical records in government hospital/institutions must be done in close coordination with what agency?

Department of Health
Records Management Archives Office
Metro Manila Development Authority
Bureau of Internal Revenue
96. Nurse Jolina must see to it that the written consent of mentally ill patients must be taken from:

Nurse
Priest
Family lawyer
Parents/legal guardians
97. When Nurse Clarence respects the client’s self-disclosure, this is a gauge for the nurses’

Respectfulness
Loyalty
Trustworthiness
Professionalism
98. The Nurse is aware that the following tasks can be safely delegated by the nurse to a non-nurse health worker except:

Taking vital signs
Change IV infusions
Transferring the client from bed to chair
Irrigation of NGT
99. During the evening round Nurse Tina saw Mr. Toralba meditating and afterwards started singing prayerful hymns. What would be the best response of Nurse Tina?

Call the attention of the client and encourage to sleep
Report the incidence to head nurse
Respect the client’s action
Document the situation
100. In caring for a dying client, you should perform which of the following activities

Do not resuscitate
Assist client to perform ADL
Encourage to exercise
Assist client towards a peaceful death
101. The Nurse is aware that the ability to enter into the life of another person and perceive his current feelings and their meaning is known:

Belongingness
Genuineness
Empathy
Respect
102. The termination phase of the NPR is best described one of the following:

Review progress of therapy and attainment of goals
Exploring the client’s thoughts, feelings and concerns
Identifying and solving patients problem
Establishing rapport
103. During the process of cocaine withdrawal, the physician orders which of the following:

Haloperidol (Haldol)
Imipramine (Tofranil)
Benztropine (Cogentin)
Diazepam (Valium)
104. The nurse is aware that cocaine is classified as:

Hallucinogen
Psycho stimulant
Anxiolytic
Narcotic
105. In community health nursing, it is the most important risk factor in the development of mental illness?

Separation of parents
Political problems
Poverty
Sexual abuse
106. All of the following are characteristics of crisis except

The client may become resistive and active in stopping the crisis
It is self-limiting for 4-6 weeks
It is unique in every individual
It may also affect the family of the client
107. Freud states that temper tantrums is observed in which of the following:

Oral
Anal
Phallic
Latency
108. The nurse is aware that ego development begins during:

Toddler period
Preschool age
School age
Infancy
109. Situation: A 19 year old nursing student has lost 36 lbs for 4 weeks. Her parents brought her to the hospital for medical evaluation. The diagnosis was ANOREXIA NERVOSA. The Primary gain of a client with anorexia nervosa is:

Weight loss
Weight gain
Reduce anxiety
Attractive appearance
110. The nurse is aware that the primary nursing diagnosis for the client is:

Altered nutrition : less than body requirement
Altered nutrition : more than body requirement
Impaired tissue integrity
Risk for malnutrition
111. After 14 days in the hospital, which finding indicates that her condition in improving?

She tells the nurse that she had no idea that she is thin
She arrives earlier than scheduled time of group therapy
She tells the nurse that she eat 3 times or more in a day
She gained 4 lbs in two weeks
112. The nurse is aware that ataractics or psychic energizers are also known as:

Anti manic
Anti depressants
Antipsychotics
Anti anxiety
113. Known as mood elevators:

Anti depressants
Antipsychotics
Anti manic
Anti anxiety
114. The priority of care for a client with Alzheimer’s disease is

Help client develop coping mechanism
Encourage to learn new hobbies and interest
Provide him stimulating environment
Simplify the environment to eliminate the need to make chores
115. Autism is diagnosed at:

Infancy
3 years old
5 years old
School age
116. The common characteristic of autism child is:

Impulsitivity
Self destructiveness
Hostility
Withdrawal
117. The nurse is aware that the most common indication in using ECT is:

Schizophrenia
Bipolar
Anorexia Nervosa
Depression
118. A therapy that focuses on here and now principle to promote self-acceptance?

Gestalt therapy
Cognitive therapy
Behavior therapy
Personality therapy
119. A client has many irrational thoughts. The goal of therapy is to change her:

Personality
Communication
Behavior
Cognition
120. The appropriate nutrition for Bipolar I disorder, in manic phase is:

Low fat, low sodium
Low calorie, high fat
Finger foods, high in calorie
Small frequent feedings
121. Which of the following activity would be best for a depressed client?

Chess
Basketball
Swimming
Finger painting
122. The nurse is aware that clients with severe depression, possess which defense mechanism:

Introjection
Suppression
Repression
Projection
123. Nurse John is aware that self mutilation among Bipolar disorder patients is a means of:

Overcoming fear of failure
Overcoming feeling of insecurity
Relieving depression
Relieving anxiety
124. Which of the following may cause an increase in the cystitis symptoms?

Water
Orange juice
Coffee
Mango juice
125. In caring for clients with renal calculi, which is the priority nursing intervention?

Record vital signs
Strain urine
Limit fluids
Administer analgesics as prescribed
126. In patient with renal failure, the diet should be:

Low protein, low sodium, low potassium
Low protein, high potassium
High carbohydrate, low protein
High calcium, high protein
127. Which of the following cannot be corrected by dialysis?

Hypernatremia
Hyperkalemia
Elevated creatinine
Decreased hemoglobin
128. Tony with infection is receiving antibiotic therapy. Later the client complaints of ringing in the ears. This ototoxicity is damage to:

4th CN
8th CN
7th CN
9th CN
129. Nurse Emma provides teaching to a patient with recurrent urinary tract infection includes the following:

Increase intake of tea, coffee and colas
Void every 6 hours per day
Void immediately after intercourse
Take tub bath everyday
130. Which assessment finding indicates circulatory constriction in a male client with a newly applied long leg cast?

Blanching or cyanosis of legs
Complaints of pressure or tightness
Inability to move toes
Numbness of toes
131. During acute gout attack, the nurse administer which of the following drug:

Prednisone (Deltasone)
Colchicines
Aspirin
Allopurinol (Zyloprim)
132. Information in the patients chart is inadmissible in court as evidence when:

The client objects to its use
Handwriting is not legible
It has too many unofficial abbreviations
The clients parents refuses to use it
133. Nurse Karen is revising a client plan of care. During which step of the nursing process does such revision take place?

Planning
Implementation
Diagnosing
Evaluation
134. When examining a client with abdominal pain, Nurse Hazel should assess:

Symptomatic quadrant either second or first
The symptomatic quadrant last
The symptomatic quadrant first
Any quadrant
135. How long will nurse John obtain an accurate reading of temperature via oral route?

3 minutes
1 minute
8 minutes
15 minutes
136. The one filing the criminal care against an accused party is said to be the?

Guilty
Accused
Plaintiff
Witness
137. A male client has a standing DNR order. He then suddenly stopped breathing and you are at his bedside. You would:

Call the physician
Stay with the client and do nothing
Call another nurse
Call the family
138. The ANA recognized nursing informatics heralding its establishment as a new field in nursing during what year?

1994
1992
2000
2001
139. When is the first certification of nursing informatics given?

1990-1993
2001-2002
1994-1996
2005-2008
140. The nurse is assessing a female client with possible diagnosis of osteoarthritis. The most significant risk factor for osteoarthritis is:

Obesity
Race
Job
Age
141. A male client complains of vertigo. Nurse Bea anticipates that the client may have a problem with which portion of the ear?

Tymphanic membranes
Inner ear
Auricle
External ear
142. When performing Weber’s test, Nurse Rosean expects that this client will hear

On unaffected side
Longer through bone than air conduction
On affected side by bone conduction
By neither bone or air conduction
143. Toy with a tentative diagnosis of myasthenia gravis is admitted for diagnostic make up. Myasthenia gravis can confirmed by:

Kernigs sign
Brudzinski’s sign
A positive sweat chloride test
A positive edrophonium (Tensilon) test
144. A male client is hospitalized with Guillain-Barre Syndrome. Which assessment finding is the most significant?

Even, unlabored respirations
Soft, non distended abdomen
Urine output of 50 ml/hr
Warm skin
145. For a female client with suspected intracranial pressure (ICP), a most appropriate respiratory goal is:

Maintain partial pressure of arterial oxygen (Pa O2) above 80mmHg
Promote elimination of carbon dioxide
Lower the PH
Prevent respiratory alkalosis
146. Which nursing assessment would identify the earliest sign of ICP?

Change in level of consciousness
Temperature of over 103°F
Widening pulse pressure
Unequal pupils
147. The greatest danger of an uncorrected atrial fibrillation for a male patient will be which of the following:

Pulmonary embolism
Cardiac arrest
Thrombus formation
Myocardial infarction
148. Linda, A 30 year old post hysterectomy client has visited the health center. She inquired about BSE and asked the nurse when BSE should be performed. You answered that the BSE is best performed:

7 days after menstruation
At the same day each month
During menstruation
Before menstruation
149. An infant is ordered to recive 500 ml of D5NSS for 24 hours. The Intravenous drip is running at 60 gtts/min. How many drops per minute should the flow rate be?

60 gtts/min.
21 gtts/min
30 gtts/min
15 gtts/min
150. Mr. Gutierrez is to receive 1 liter of D5RL to run for 12 hours. The drop factor of the IV infusion set is 10 drops per minute. Approximately how many drops per minutes should the IV be regulated?

13-14 drops
17-18 drops
10-12 drops
15-16 drops