26. A male client undergone a colon resection. While turning him, wound dehiscence with evisceration occurs. Nurse Trish first response is to:
Call the physician
Place a saline-soaked sterile dressing on the wound.
Take a blood pressure and pulse.
Pull the dehiscence closed.
27. Nurse Audrey is caring for a client who has suffered a severe cerebrovascular accident. During routine assessment, the nurse notices Cheyne- Strokes respirations. Cheyne-strokes respirations are:
A progressively deeper breaths followed by shallower breaths with apneic periods.
Rapid, deep breathing with abrupt pauses between each breath.
Rapid, deep breathing and irregular breathing without pauses.
Shallow breathing with an increased respiratory rate.
28. Nurse Bea is assessing a male client with heart failure. The breath sounds commonly auscultated in clients with heart failure are:
Tracheal
Fine crackles
Coarse crackles
Friction rubs
29. The nurse is caring for Kenneth experiencing an acute asthma attack. The client stops wheezing and breath sounds aren’t audible. The reason for this change is that:
The attack is over.
The airways are so swollen that no air cannot get through.
The swelling has decreased.
Crackles have replaced wheezes.
30. Mike with epilepsy is having a seizure. During the active seizure phase, the nurse should:
Place the client on his back remove dangerous objects, and insert a bite block.
Place the client on his side, remove dangerous objects, and insert a bite block.
Place the client o his back, remove dangerous objects, and hold down his arms.
Place the client on his side, remove dangerous objects, and protect his head.
31. After insertion of a cheat tube for a pneumothorax, a client becomes hypotensive with neck vein distention, tracheal shift, absent breath sounds, and diaphoresis. Nurse Amanda suspects a tension pneumothorax has occurred. What cause of tension pneumothorax should the nurse check for?
Infection of the lung.
Kinked or obstructed chest tube
Excessive water in the water-seal chamber
Excessive chest tube drainage
32. Nurse Maureen is talking to a male client, the client begins choking on his lunch. He’s coughing forcefully. The nurse should:
Stand him up and perform the abdominal thrust maneuver from behind.
Lay him down, straddle him, and perform the abdominal thrust maneuver.
Leave him to get assistance
Stay with him but not intervene at this time.
33. Nurse Ron is taking a health history of an 84 year old client. Which information will be most useful to the nurse for planning care?
General health for the last 10 years.
Current health promotion activities.
Family history of diseases.
Marital status.
34. When performing oral care on a comatose client, Nurse Krina should:
Apply lemon glycerin to the client’s lips at least every 2 hours.
Brush the teeth with client lying supine.
Place the client in a side lying position, with the head of the bed lowered.
Clean the client’s mouth with hydrogen peroxide.
35. A 77-year-old male client is admitted with a diagnosis of dehydration and change in mental status. He’s being hydrated with L.V. fluids. When the nurse takes his vital signs, she notes he has a fever of 103°F (39.4°C) a cough producing yellow sputum and pleuritic chest pain. The nurse suspects this client may have which of the following conditions?
Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
Myocardial infarction (MI)
Pneumonia
Tuberculosis
36. Nurse Oliver is working in a out patient clinic. He has been alerted that there is an outbreak of tuberculosis (TB). Which of the following clients entering the clinic today most likely to have TB?
A 16-year-old female high school student
A 33-year-old day-care worker
A 43-yesr-old homeless man with a history of alcoholism
A 54-year-old businessman
37. Virgie with a positive Mantoux test result will be sent for a chest X-ray. The nurse is aware that which of the following reasons this is done?
To confirm the diagnosis
To determine if a repeat skin test is needed
To determine the extent of lesions
To determine if this is a primary or secondary infection
38. Kennedy with acute asthma showing inspiratory and expiratory wheezes and a decreased forced expiratory volume should be treated with which of the following classes of medication right away?
Beta-adrenergic blockers
Bronchodilators
Inhaled steroids
Oral steroids
39. Mr. Vasquez 56-year-old client with a 40-year history of smoking one to two packs of cigarettes per day has a chronic cough producing thick sputum, peripheral edema and cyanotic nail beds. Based on this information, he most likely has which of the following conditions?
Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
Asthma
Chronic obstructive bronchitis
Emphysema
40. Situation: Francis, age 46 is admitted to the hospital with diagnosis of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia. The treatment for patients with leukemia is bone marrow transplantation. Which statement about bone marrow transplantation is not correct?
The patient is under local anesthesia during the procedure
The aspirated bone marrow is mixed with heparin.
The aspiration site is the posterior or anterior iliac crest.
The recipient receives cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) for 4 consecutive days before the procedure.
41. After several days of admission, Francis becomes disoriented and complains of frequent headaches. The nurse in-charge first action would be:
Call the physician
Document the patient’s status in his charts.
Prepare oxygen treatment
Raise the side rails
42. During routine care, Francis asks the nurse, “How can I be anemic if this disease causes increased my white blood cell production?” The nurse in-charge best response would be that the increased number of white blood cells (WBC) is:
Crowd red blood cells
Are not responsible for the anemia.
Uses nutrients from other cells
Have an abnormally short life span of cells.
43. Diagnostic assessment of Francis would probably not reveal:
Predominance of lymhoblasts
Leukocytosis
Abnormal blast cells in the bone marrow
Elevated thrombocyte counts
44. Robert, a 57-year-old client with acute arterial occlusion of the left leg undergoes an emergency embolectomy. Six hours later, the nurse isn’t able to obtain pulses in his left foot using Doppler ultrasound. The nurse immediately notifies the physician, and asks her to prepare the client for surgery. As the nurse enters the client’s room to prepare him, he states that he won’t have any more surgery. Which of the following is the best initial response by the nurse?
Explain the risks of not having the surgery
Notifying the physician immediately
Notifying the nursing supervisor
Recording the client’s refusal in the nurses’ notes
45. During the endorsement, which of the following clients should the on-duty nurse assess first?
The 58-year-old client who was admitted 2 days ago with heart failure, blood pressure of 126/76 mm Hg, and a respiratory rate of 22 breaths/minute.
The 89-year-old client with end-stage right-sided heart failure, blood pressure of 78/50 mm Hg, and a “do not resuscitate” order
The 62-year-old client who was admitted 1 day ago with thrombophlebitis and is receiving L.V. heparin
The 75-year-old client who was admitted 1 hour ago with new-onset atrial fibrillation and is receiving L.V. dilitiazem (Cardizem)
46. Honey, a 23-year old client complains of substernal chest pain and states that her heart feels like “it’s racing out of the chest”. She reports no history of cardiac disorders. The nurse attaches her to a cardiac monitor and notes sinus tachycardia with a rate of 136beats/minutes. Breath sounds are clear and the respiratory rate is 26 breaths/minutes. Which of the following drugs should the nurse question the client about using?
Barbiturates
Opioids
Cocaine
Benzodiazepines
47. A 51-year-old female client tells the nurse in-charge that she has found a painless lump in her right breast during her monthly self-examination. Which assessment finding would strongly suggest that this client’s lump is cancerous?
Eversion of the right nipple and mobile mass
Nonmobile mass with irregular edges
Mobile mass that is soft and easily delineated
Nonpalpable right axillary lymph nodes
48. A 35-year-old client with vaginal cancer asks the nurse, “What is the usual treatment for this type of cancer?” Which treatment should the nurse name?
Surgery
Chemotherapy
Radiation
Immunotherapy
49. Cristina undergoes a biopsy of a suspicious lesion. The biopsy report classifies the lesion according to the TNM staging system as follows: TIS, N0, M0. What does this classification mean?
No evidence of primary tumor, no abnormal regional lymph nodes, and no evidence of distant metastasis
Carcinoma in situ, no abnormal regional lymph nodes, and no evidence of distant metastasis
Can’t assess tumor or regional lymph nodes and no evidence of metastasis
Carcinoma in situ, no demonstrable metastasis of the regional lymph nodes, and ascending degrees of distant metastasis
50. Lydia undergoes a laryngectomy to treat laryngeal cancer. When teaching the client how to care for the neck stoma, the nurse should include which instruction?
“Keep the stoma uncovered.”
“Keep the stoma dry.”
“Have a family member perform stoma care initially until you get used to the procedure.”
“Keep the stoma moist.”