51. A 37-year-old client with uterine cancer asks the nurse, “Which is the most common type of cancer in women?” The nurse replies that it’s breast cancer. Which type of cancer causes the most deaths in women?
Breast cancer
Lung cancer
Brain cancer
Colon and rectal cancer
52. Antonio with lung cancer develops Horner’s syndrome when the tumor invades the ribs and affects the sympathetic nerve ganglia. When assessing for signs and symptoms of this syndrome, the nurse should note:
miosis, partial eyelid ptosis, and anhidrosis on the affected side of the face.
chest pain, dyspnea, cough, weight loss, and fever.
arm and shoulder pain and atrophy of arm and hand muscles, both on the affected side.
hoarseness and dysphagia.
53. Vic asks the nurse what PSA is. The nurse should reply that it stands for:
prostate-specific antigen, which is used to screen for prostate cancer.
protein serum antigen, which is used to determine protein levels.
pneumococcal strep antigen, which is a bacteria that causes pneumonia.
Papanicolaou-specific antigen, which is used to screen for cervical cancer.
54. What is the most important postoperative instruction that nurse Kate must give a client who has just returned from the operating room after receiving a subarachnoid block?
“Avoid drinking liquids until the gag reflex returns.”
“Avoid eating milk products for 24 hours.”
“Notify a nurse if you experience blood in your urine.”
“Remain supine for the time specified by the physician.”
55. A male client suspected of having colorectal cancer will require which diagnostic study to confirm the diagnosis?
Stool Hematest
Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA)
Sigmoidoscopy
Abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan
56. During a breast examination, which finding most strongly suggests that the Luz has breast cancer?
Slight asymmetry of the breasts.
A fixed nodular mass with dimpling of the overlying skin
Bloody discharge from the nipple
Multiple firm, round, freely movable masses that change with the menstrual cycle
57. A female client with cancer is being evaluated for possible metastasis. Which of the following is one of the most common metastasis sites for cancer cells?
Liver
Colon
Reproductive tract
White blood cells (WBCs)
58. Nurse Mandy is preparing a client for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to confirm or rule out a spinal cord lesion. During the MRI scan, which of the following would pose a threat to the client?
The client lies still.
The client asks questions.
The client hears thumping sounds.
The client wears a watch and wedding band.
59. Nurse Cecile is teaching a female client about preventing osteoporosis. Which of the following teaching points is correct?
Obtaining an X-ray of the bones every 3 years is recommended to detect bone loss.
To avoid fractures, the client should avoid strenuous exercise.
The recommended daily allowance of calcium may be found in a wide variety of foods.
Obtaining the recommended daily allowance of calcium requires taking a calcium supplement.
60. Before Jacob undergoes arthroscopy, the nurse reviews the assessment findings for contraindications for this procedure. Which finding is a contraindication?
Joint pain
Joint deformity
Joint flexion of less than 50%
Joint stiffness
61. Mr. Rodriguez is admitted with severe pain in the knees. Which form of arthritis is characterized by urate deposits and joint pain, usually in the feet and legs, and occurs primarily in men over age 30?
Septic arthritis
Traumatic arthritis
Intermittent arthritis
Gouty arthritis
62. A heparin infusion at 1,500 unit/hour is ordered for a 64-year-old client with stroke in evolution. The infusion contains 25,000 units of heparin in 500 ml of saline solution. How many milliliters per hour should be given?
15 ml/hour
30 ml/hour
45 ml/hour
50 ml/hour
63. A 76-year-old male client had a thromboembolic right stroke; his left arm is swollen. Which of the following conditions may cause swelling after a stroke?
Elbow contracture secondary to spasticity
Loss of muscle contraction decreasing venous return
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) due to immobility of the ipsilateral side
Hypoalbuminemia due to protein escaping from an inflamed glomerulus
64. Heberden’s nodes are a common sign of osteoarthritis. Which of the following statement is correct about this deformity?
It appears only in men
It appears on the distal interphalangeal joint
It appears on the proximal interphalangeal joint
It appears on the dorsolateral aspect of the interphalangeal joint.
65. Which of the following statements explains the main difference between rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis is gender-specific, rheumatoid arthritis isn’t
Osteoarthritis is a localized disease rheumatoid arthritis is systemic
Osteoarthritis is a systemic disease, rheumatoid arthritis is localized
Osteoarthritis has dislocations and subluxations, rheumatoid arthritis doesn’t
66. Mrs. Cruz uses a cane for assistance in walking. Which of the following statements is true about a cane or other assistive devices?
A walker is a better choice than a cane.
The cane should be used on the affected side
The cane should be used on the unaffected side
A client with osteoarthritis should be encouraged to ambulate without the cane
67. A male client with type 1 diabetes is scheduled to receive 30 U of 70/30 insulin. There is no 70/30 insulin available. As a substitution, the nurse may give the client:
9 U regular insulin and 21 U neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH).
21 U regular insulin and 9 U NPH.
10 U regular insulin and 20 U NPH.
20 U regular insulin and 10 U NPH.
68. Nurse Len should expect to administer which medication to a client with gout?
aspirin
furosemide (Lasix)
colchicines
calcium gluconate (Kalcinate)
69. Mr. Domingo with a history of hypertension is diagnosed with primary hyperaldosteronism. This diagnosis indicates that the client’s hypertension is caused by excessive hormone secretion from which of the following glands?
Adrenal cortex
Pancreas
Adrenal medulla
Parathyroid
70. For a diabetic male client with a foot ulcer, the doctor orders bed rest, a wetto- dry dressing change every shift, and blood glucose monitoring before meals and bedtime. Why are wet-to-dry dressings used for this client?
They contain exudate and provide a moist wound environment.
They protect the wound from mechanical trauma and promote healing.
They debride the wound and promote healing by secondary intention.
They prevent the entrance of microorganisms and minimize wound discomfort.
71. Nurse Zeny is caring for a client in acute addisonian crisis. Which laboratory data would the nurse expect to find?
Hyperkalemia
Reduced blood urea nitrogen (BUN)
Hypernatremia
Hyperglycemia
72. A client is admitted for treatment of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). Which nursing intervention is appropriate?
Infusing I.V. fluids rapidly as ordered
Encouraging increased oral intake
Restricting fluids
Administering glucose-containing I.V. fluids as ordered
73. A female client tells nurse Nikki that she has been working hard for the last 3 months to control her type 2 diabetes mellitus with diet and exercise. To determine the effectiveness of the client’s efforts, the nurse should check:
urine glucose level.
fasting blood glucose level.
serum fructosamine level.
glycosylated hemoglobin level.
74. Nurse Trinity administered neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin to a diabetic client at 7 a.m. At what time would the nurse expect the client to be most at risk for a hypoglycemic reaction?
10:00 am
Noon
4:00 pm
10:00 pm
75. The adrenal cortex is responsible for producing which substances?
Glucocorticoids and androgens
Catecholamines and epinephrine
Mineralocorticoids and catecholamines
Norepinephrine and epinephrine