76. On the third day after a partial thyroidectomy, Proserfina exhibits muscle twitching and hyperirritability of the nervous system. When questioned, the client reports numbness and tingling of the mouth and fingertips. Suspecting a lifethreatening electrolyte disturbance, the nurse notifies the surgeon immediately. Which electrolyte disturbance most commonly follows thyroid surgery?
Hypocalcemia
Hyponatremia
Hyperkalemia
Hypermagnesemia
77. Which laboratory test value is elevated in clients who smoke and can’t be used as a general indicator of cancer?
Acid phosphatase level
Serum calcitonin level
Alkaline phosphatase level
Carcinoembryonic antigen level
78. Francis with anemia has been admitted to the medical-surgical unit. Which assessment findings are characteristic of iron-deficiency anemia?
Nights sweats, weight loss, and diarrhea
Dyspnea, tachycardia, and pallor
Nausea, vomiting, and anorexia
Itching, rash, and jaundice
79. In teaching a female client who is HIV-positive about pregnancy, the nurse would know more teaching is necessary when the client says:
The baby can get the virus from my placenta.”
“I’m planning on starting on birth control pills.”
“Not everyone who has the virus gives birth to a baby who has the virus.”
“I’ll need to have a C-section if I become pregnant and have a baby.”
80. When preparing Judy with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) for discharge to the home, the nurse should be sure to include which instruction?
“Put on disposable gloves before bathing.”
“Sterilize all plates and utensils in boiling water.”
“Avoid sharing such articles as toothbrushes and razors.”
“Avoid eating foods from serving dishes shared by other family members.”
81. Nurse Marie is caring for a 32-year-old client admitted with pernicious anemia. Which set of findings should the nurse expect when assessing the client?
Pallor, bradycardia, and reduced pulse pressure
Pallor, tachycardia, and a sore tongue
Sore tongue, dyspnea, and weight gain
Angina, double vision, and anorexia
82. After receiving a dose of penicillin, a client develops dyspnea and hypotension. Nurse Celestina suspects the client is experiencing anaphylactic shock. What should the nurse do first?
Page an anesthesiologist immediately and prepare to intubate the client.
Administer epinephrine, as prescribed, and prepare to intubate the client if necessary.
Administer the antidote for penicillin, as prescribed, and continue to monitor the client’s vital signs.
Insert an indwelling urinary catheter and begin to infuse I.V. fluids as ordered.
83. Mr. Marquez with rheumatoid arthritis is about to begin aspirin therapy to reduce inflammation. When teaching the client about aspirin, the nurse discusses adverse reactions to prolonged aspirin therapy. These include:
weight gain.
fine motor tremors.
respiratory acidosis.
bilateral hearing loss.
84. A 23-year-old client is diagnosed with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). After recovering from the initial shock of the diagnosis, the client expresses a desire to learn as much as possible about HIV and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). When teaching the client about the immune system, the nurse states that adaptive immunity is provided by which type of white blood cell?
Neutrophil
Basophil
Monocyte
Lymphocyte
85. In an individual with Sjögren’s syndrome, nursing care should focus on:
moisture replacement.
electrolyte balance.
nutritional supplementation.
arrhythmia management.
86. During chemotherapy for lymphocytic leukemia, Mathew develops abdominal pain, fever, and “horse barn” smelling diarrhea. It would be most important for the nurse to advise the physician to order:
enzyme-linked immunosuppressant assay (ELISA) test.
electrolyte panel and hemogram.
stool for Clostridium difficile test.
flat plate X-ray of the abdomen.
87. A male client seeks medical evaluation for fatigue, night sweats, and a 20-lb weight loss in 6 weeks. To confirm that the client has been infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the nurse expects the physician to order:
E-rosette immunofluorescence.
quantification of T-lymphocytes.
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
Western blot test with ELISA.
88. A complete blood count is commonly performed before a Joe goes into surgery. What does this test seek to identify?
Potential hepatic dysfunction indicated by decreased blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine levels
Low levels of urine constituents normally excreted in the urine
Abnormally low hematocrit (HCT) and hemoglobin (Hb) levels
Electrolyte imbalance that could affect the blood’s ability to coagulate properly
89. While monitoring a client for the development of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), the nurse should take note of what assessment parameters?
Platelet count, prothrombin time, and partial thromboplastin time
Platelet count, blood glucose levels, and white blood cell (WBC) count
Thrombin time, calcium levels, and potassium levels
Fibrinogen level, WBC, and platelet count
90. When taking a dietary history from a newly admitted female client, Nurse Len should remember that which of the following foods is a common allergen?
Bread
Carrots
Orange
Strawberries
91. Nurse John is caring for clients in the outpatient clinic. Which of the following phone calls should the nurse return first?
A client with hepatitis A who states, “My arms and legs are itching.”
A client with cast on the right leg who states, “I have a funny feeling in my right leg.”
A client with osteomyelitis of the spine who states, “I am so nauseous that I can’t eat.”
A client with rheumatoid arthritis who states, “I am having trouble sleeping.”
92. Nurse Sarah is caring for clients on the surgical floor and has just received report from the previous shift. Which of the following clients should the nurse see first?
A 35-year-old admitted three hours ago with a gunshot wound; 1.5 cm area of dark drainage noted on the dressing.
A 43-year-old who had a mastectomy two days ago; 23 ml of serosanguinous fluid noted in the Jackson-Pratt drain.
A 59-year-old with a collapsed lung due to an accident; no drainage noted in the previous eight hours.
A 62-year-old who had an abdominal-perineal resection three days ago; client complaints of chills.
93. Nurse Eve is caring for a client who had a thyroidectomy 12 hours ago for treatment of Grave’s disease. The nurse would be most concerned if which of the following was observed?
Blood pressure 138/82, respirations 16, oral temperature 99 degrees Fahrenheit.
The client supports his head and neck when turning his head to the right.
The client spontaneously flexes his wrist when the blood pressure is obtained.
The client is drowsy and complains of sore throat.
94. Julius is admitted with complaints of severe pain in the lower right quadrant of the abdomen. To assist with pain relief, the nurse should take which of the following actions?
Encourage the client to change positions frequently in bed.
Administer Demerol 50 mg IM q 4 hours and PRN.
Apply warmth to the abdomen with a heating pad.
Use comfort measures and pillows to position the client.
95. Nurse Tina prepares a client for peritoneal dialysis. Which of the following actions should the nurse take first?
Assess for a bruit and a thrill.
Warm the dialysate solution.
Position the client on the left side.
Insert a Foley catheter
96. Nurse Jannah teaches an elderly client with right-sided weakness how to use cane. Which of the following behaviors, if demonstrated by the client to the nurse, indicates that the teaching was effective?
The client holds the cane with his right hand, moves the can forward followed by the right leg, and then moves the left leg.
The client holds the cane with his right hand, moves the cane forward followed by his left leg, and then moves the right leg.
The client holds the cane with his left hand, moves the cane forward followed by the right leg, and then moves the left leg.
The client holds the cane with his left hand, moves the cane forward followed by his left leg, and then moves the right leg.
97. An elderly client is admitted to the nursing home setting. The client is occasionally confused and her gait is often unsteady. Which of the following actions, if taken by the nurse, is most appropriate?
Ask the woman’s family to provide personal items such as photos or mementos.
Select a room with a bed by the door so the woman can look down the hall.
Suggest the woman eat her meals in the room with her roommate.
Encourage the woman to ambulate in the halls twice a day.
98. Nurse Evangeline teaches an elderly client how to use a standard aluminum walker. Which of the following behaviors, if demonstrated by the client, indicates that the nurse’s teaching was effective?
The client slowly pushes the walker forward 12 inches, then takes small steps forward while leaning on the walker.
The client lifts the walker, moves it forward 10 inches, and then takes several small steps forward.
The client supports his weight on the walker while advancing it forward, then takes small steps while balancing on the walker.
The client slides the walker 18 inches forward, then takes small steps while holding onto the walker for balance.
99. Nurse Deric is supervising a group of elderly clients in a residential home setting. The nurse knows that the elderly are at greater risk of developing sensory deprivation for what reason?
Increased sensitivity to the side effects of medications.
Decreased visual, auditory, and gustatory abilities.
Isolation from their families and familiar surroundings.
Decrease musculoskeletal function and mobility.
100. A male client with emphysema becomes restless and confused. What step should nurse Jasmine take next?
Encourage the client to perform pursed lip breathing.
Check the client’s temperature.
Assess the client’s potassium level.
Increase the client’s oxygen flow rate.