26.Anthony suffers burns on the legs, which nursing intervention helps prevent contractures?
Applying knee splints
Elevating the foot of the bed
Hyperextending the client’s palms
Performing shoulder range-of-motion exercises
27.Nurse Ron is assessing a client admitted with second- and third-degree burns on the face, arms, and chest. Which finding indicates a potential problem?
Partial pressure of arterial oxygen (PaO2) value of 80 mm Hg.
Urine output of 20 ml/hour.
White pulmonary secretions.
Rectal temperature of 100.6° F (38° C).
28. Mr. Mendoza who has suffered a cerebrovascular accident (CVA) is too weak to move on his own. To help the client avoid pressure ulcers, Nurse Celia should:
Turn him frequently.
Perform passive range-of-motion (ROM) exercises.
Reduce the client’s fluid intake.
Encourage the client to use a footboard.
29.Nurse Maria plans to administer dexamethasone cream to a female client who has dermatitis over the anterior chest. How should the nurse apply this topical agent?
With a circular motion, to enhance absorption.
With an upward motion, to increase blood supply to the affected area
In long, even, outward, and downward strokes in the direction of hair growth
In long, even, outward, and upward strokes in the direction opposite hair growth
30.Nurse Kate is aware that one of the following classes of medication protect the ischemic myocardium by blocking catecholamines and sympathetic nerve stimulation is:
Beta -adrenergic blockers
Calcium channel blocker
Narcotics
Nitrates
31.A male client has jugular distention. On what position should the nurse place the head of the bed to obtain the most accurate reading of jugular vein distention?
High Fowler’s
Raised 10 degrees
Raised 30 degrees
Supine position
32.The nurse is aware that one of the following classes of medications maximizes cardiac performance in clients with heart failure by increasing ventricular contractility?
Beta-adrenergic blockers
Calcium channel blocker
Diuretics
Inotropic agents
33.A male client has a reduced serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) level and an elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) level. Which of the following dietary modifications is not appropriate for this client?
Fiber intake of 25 to 30 g daily
Less than 30% of calories form fat
Cholesterol intake of less than 300 mg daily
Less than 10% of calories from saturated fat
34. A 37-year-old male client was admitted to the coronary care unit (CCU) 2 days ago with an acute myocardial infarction. Which of the following actions would breach the client confidentiality?
The CCU nurse gives a verbal report to the nurse on the telemetry unit before transferring the client to that unit
The CCU nurse notifies the on-call physician about a change in the client’s condition
The emergency department nurse calls up the latest electrocardiogram results to check the client’s progress.
At the client’s request, the CCU nurse updates the client’s wife on his condition
35. A male client arriving in the emergency department is receiving cardiopulmonary resuscitation from paramedics who are giving ventilations through an endotracheal (ET) tube that they placed in the client’s home. During a pause in compressions, the cardiac monitor shows narrow QRS complexes and a heart rate of beats/minute with a palpable pulse. Which of the following actions should the nurse take first?
Start an L.V. line and administer amiodarone (Cardarone), 300 mg L.V. over 10 minutes.
Check endotracheal tube placement.
Obtain an arterial blood gas (ABG) sample.
Administer atropine, 1 mg L.V.
36. After cardiac surgery, a client’s blood pressure measures 126/80 mm Hg. Nurse Katrina determines that mean arterial pressure (MAP) is which of the following?
46 mm Hg
80 mm Hg
95 mm Hg
90 mm Hg
37. A female client arrives at the emergency department with chest and stomach pain and a report of black tarry stool for several months. Which of the following order should the nurse Oliver anticipate?
Cardiac monitor, oxygen, creatine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase levels
Prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen and fibrin split product values.
Electrocardiogram, complete blood count, testing for occult blood, comprehensive serum metabolic panel.
Electroencephalogram, alkaline phosphatase and aspartate aminotransferase levels, basic serum metabolic panel
38. Macario had coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery 3 days ago. Which of the following conditions is suspected by the nurse when a decrease in platelet count from 230,000 ul to 5,000 ul is noted?
Pancytopenia
Idiopathic thrombocytopemic purpura (ITP)
Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)
Heparin-associated thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (HATT)
39. Which of the following drugs would be ordered by the physician to improve the platelet count in a male client with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)?
Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA)
Corticosteroids
Methotrezate
Vitamin K
40. A female client is scheduled to receive a heart valve replacement with a porcine valve. Which of the following types of transplant is this?
Allogeneic
Autologous
Syngeneic
Xenogeneic
41. Marco falls off his bicycle and injuries his ankle. Which of the following actions shows the initial response to the injury in the extrinsic pathway?
Release of Calcium
Release of tissue thromboplastin
Conversion of factors XII to factor XIIa
Conversion of factor VIII to factor VIIIa
42. Instructions for a client with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) would include information about which of the following blood dyscrasias?
Dressler’s syndrome
Polycythemia
Essential thrombocytopenia
Von Willebrand’s disease
43. The nurse is aware that the following symptoms is most commonly an early indication of stage 1 Hodgkin’s disease?
Pericarditis
Night sweat
Splenomegaly
Persistent hypothermia
44. Francis with leukemia has neutropenia. Which of the following functions must frequently assessed?
Blood pressure
Bowel sounds
Heart sounds
Breath sounds
45. The nurse knows that neurologic complications of multiple myeloma (MM) usually involve which of the following body system?
Brain
Muscle spasm
Renal dysfunction
Myocardial irritability
46. Nurse Patricia is aware that the average length of time from human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection to the development of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)?
Less than 5 years
5 to 7 years
10 years
More than 10 years
47. An 18-year-old male client admitted with heat stroke begins to show signs of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Which of the following laboratory findings is most consistent with DIC?
Low platelet count
Elevated fibrinogen levels
Low levels of fibrin degradation products
Reduced prothrombin time
48. Mario comes to the clinic complaining of fever, drenching night sweats, and unexplained weight loss over the past 3 months. Physical examination reveals a single enlarged supraclavicular lymph node. Which of the following is the most probable diagnosis?
Influenza
Sickle cell anemia
Leukemia
Hodgkin’s disease
49. A male client with a gunshot wound requires an emergency blood transfusion. His blood type is AB negative. Which blood type would be the safest for him to receive?
AB Rh-positive
A Rh-positive
A Rh-negative
O Rh-positive
50.Situation: Stacy is diagnosed with acute lymphoid leukemia (ALL) and beginning chemotherapy. Stacy is discharged from the hospital following her chemotherapy treatments. Which statement of Stacy’s mother indicated that she understands when she will contact the physician?
“I should contact the physician if Stacy has difficulty in sleeping”.
“I will call my doctor if Stacy has persistent vomiting and diarrhea”.
“My physician should be called if Stacy is irritable and unhappy”.
“Should Stacy have continued hair loss, I need to call the doctor”.
