51. Stacy’s mother states to the nurse that it is hard to see Stacy with no hair. The best response for the nurse is:
“Stacy looks very nice wearing a hat”.
“You should not worry about her hair, just be glad that she is alive”.
“Yes it is upsetting. But try to cover up your feelings when you are with her or else she may be upset”.
“This is only temporary; Stacy will re-grow new hair in 3-6 months, but may be different in texture”.
52. Stacy has beginning stomatitis. To promote oral hygiene and comfort, the nurse in-charge should:
Provide frequent mouthwash with normal saline.
Apply viscous Lidocaine to oral ulcers as needed.
Use lemon glycerine swabs every 2 hours.
Rinse mouth with Hydrogen Peroxide.
53. During the administration of chemotherapy agents, Nurse Oliver observed that the IV site is red and swollen, when the IV is touched Stacy shouts in pain. The first nursing action to take is:
Notify the physician
Flush the IV line with saline solution
Immediately discontinue the infusion
Apply an ice pack to the site, followed by warm compress.
54. The term “blue bloater” refers to a male client which of the following conditions?
Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
Asthma
Chronic obstructive bronchitis
Emphysema
55. The term “pink puffer” refers to the female client with which of the following conditions?
Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
Asthma
Chronic obstructive bronchitis
Emphysema
56. Jose is in danger of respiratory arrest following the administration of a narcotic analgesic. An arterial blood gas value is obtained. Nurse Oliver would expect the paco2 to be which of the following values?
15 mm Hg
30 mm Hg
40 mm Hg
80 mm Hg
57. Timothy’s arterial blood gas (ABG) results are as follows; pH 7.16; Paco2 80 mm Hg; Pao2 46 mm Hg; HCO3- 24mEq/L; Sao2 81%. This ABG result represents which of the following conditions?
Metabolic acidosis
Metabolic alkalosis
Respiratory acidosis
Respirator y alkalosis
58. Norma has started a new drug for hypertension. Thirty minutes after she takes the drug, she develops chest tightness and becomes short of breath and tachypneic. She has a decreased level of consciousness. These signs indicate which of the following conditions?
Asthma attack
Pulmonary embolism
Respiratory failure
Rheumatoid arthritis
59. Situation: Mr. Gonzales was admitted to the hospital with ascites and jaundice. To rule out cirrhosis of the liver: Which laboratory test indicates liver cirrhosis?
Decreased red blood cell count
Decreased serum acid phosphate level
Elevated white blood cell count
Elevated serum aminotransferase
60.The biopsy of Mr. Gonzales confirms the diagnosis of cirrhosis. Mr. Gonzales is at increased risk for excessive bleeding primarily because of:
Impaired clotting mechanism
Varix formation
Inadequate nutrition
Trauma of invasive procedure
61. Mr. Gonzales develops hepatic encephalopathy. Which clinical manifestation is most common with this condition?
Increased urine output
Altered level of consciousness
Decreased tendon reflex
Hypotension
62. When Mr. Gonzales regained consciousness, the physician orders 50 ml of Lactose p.o. every 2 hours. Mr. Gozales develops diarrhea. The nurse best action would be:
“I’ll see if your physician is in the hospital”.
“Maybe your reacting to the drug; I will withhold the next dose”.
“I’ll lower the dosage as ordered so the drug causes only 2 to 4 stools a day”.
“Frequently, bowel movements are needed to reduce sodium level”.
63. Which of the following groups of symptoms indicates a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm?
Lower back pain, increased blood pressure, decreased re blood cell (RBC) count, increased white blood (WBC) count.
Severe lower back pain, decreased blood pressure, decreased RBC count, increased WBC count.
Severe lower back pain, decreased blood pressure, decreased RBC count, decreased RBC count, decreased WBC count.
Intermitted lower back pain, decreased blood pressure, decreased RBC count, increased WBC count.
64. After undergoing a cardiac catheterization, Tracy has a large puddle of blood under his buttocks. Which of the following steps should the nurse take first?
Call for help.
Obtain vital signs
Ask the client to “lift up”
Apply gloves and assess the groin site
65. Which of the following treatment is a suitable surgical intervention for a client with unstable angina?
Cardiac catheterization
Echocardiogram
Nitroglycerin
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA)
66. The nurse is aware that the following terms used to describe reduced cardiac output and perfusion impairment due to ineffective pumping of the heart is:
Anaphylactic shock
Cardiogenic shock
Distributive shock
Myocardial infarction (MI)
67. A client with hypertension ask the nurse which factors can cause blood pressure to drop to normal levels?
Kidneys’ excretion to sodium only.
Kidneys’ retention of sodium and water
Kidneys’ excretion of sodium and water
Kidneys’ retention of sodium and excretion of water
68. Nurse Rose is aware that the statement that best explains why furosemide (Lasix) is administered to treat hypertension is:
It dilates peripheral blood vessels.
It decreases sympathetic cardioacceleration.
It inhibits the angiotensin-coverting enzymes
It inhibits reabsorption of sodium and water in the loop of Henle.
69. Nurse Nikki knows that laboratory results supports the diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is:
Elavated serum complement level
Thrombocytosis, elevated sedimentation rate
Pancytopenia, elevated antinuclear antibody (ANA) titer
Leukocysis, elevated blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine levels
70. Arnold, a 19-year-old client with a mild concussion is discharged from the emergency department. Before discharge, he complains of a headache. When offered acetaminophen, his mother tells the nurse the headache is severe and she would like her son to have something stronger. Which of the following responses by the nurse is appropriate?
“Your son had a mild concussion, acetaminophen is strong enough.”
“Aspirin is avoided because of the danger of Reye’s syndrome in children or young adults.”
“Narcotics are avoided after a head injury because they may hide a worsening condition.”
Stronger medications may lead to vomiting, which increases the intracarnial pressure (ICP).”
71. When evaluating an arterial blood gas from a male client with a subdural hematoma, the nurse notes the Paco2 is 30 mm Hg. Which of the following responses best describes the result?
Appropriate; lowering carbon dioxide (CO2) reduces intracranial pressure (ICP)
Emergent; the client is poorly oxygenated
Normal
Significant; the client has alveolar hypoventilation
72. When prioritizing care, which of the following clients should the nurse Olivia assess first?
A 17-year-old clients 24-hours postappendectomy
A 33-year-old client with a recent diagnosis of Guillain-Barre syndrome
A 50-year-old client 3 days postmyocardial infarction
A 50-year-old client with diverticulitis
73. JP has been diagnosed with gout and wants to know why colchicine is used in the treatment of gout. Which of the following actions of colchicines explains why it’s effective for gout?
Replaces estrogen
Decreases infection
Decreases inflammation
Decreases bone demineralization
74. Norma asks for information about osteoarthritis. Which of the following statements about osteoarthritis is correct?
Osteoarthritis is rarely debilitating
Osteoarthritis is a rare form of arthritis
Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis
Osteoarthritis afflicts people over 60
75. Ruby is receiving thyroid replacement therapy develops the flu and forgets to take her thyroid replacement medicine. The nurse understands that skipping this medication will put the client at risk for developing which of the following lifethreatening complications?
Exophthalmos
Thyroid storm
Myxedema coma
Tibial myxedema