76. Nurse Sugar is assessing a client with Cushing’s syndrome. Which observation should the nurse report to the physician immediately?
Pitting edema of the legs
An irregular apical pulse
Dry mucous membranes
Frequent urination
77. Cyrill with severe head trauma sustained in a car accident is admitted to the intensive care unit. Thirty-six hours later, the client’s urine output suddenly rises above 200 ml/hour, leading the nurse to suspect diabetes insipidus. Which laboratory findings support the nurse’s suspicion of diabetes insipidus?
Above-normal urine and serum osmolality levels
Below-normal urine and serum osmolality levels
Above-normal urine osmolality level, below-normal serum osmolality level
Below-normal urine osmolality level, above-normal serum osmolality level
78. Jomari is diagnosed with hyperosmolar hyperglycemic nonketotic syndrome (HHNS) is stabilized and prepared for discharge. When preparing the client for discharge and home management, which of the following statements indicates that the client understands her condition and how to control it?
“I can avoid getting sick by not becoming dehydrated and by paying attention to my need to urinate, drink, or eat more than usual.”
“If I experience trembling, weakness, and headache, I should drink a glass of soda that contains sugar.”
“I will have to monitor my blood glucose level closely and notify the physician if it’s constantly elevated.”
“If I begin to feel especially hungry and thirsty, I’ll eat a snack high in carbohydrates.”
79. A 66-year-old client has been complaining of sleeping more, increased urination, anorexia, weakness, irritability, depression, and bone pain that interferes with her going outdoors. Based on these assessment findings, the nurse would suspect which of the following disorders?
Diabetes mellitus
Diabetes insipidus
Hypoparathyroidism
Hyperparathyroidism
80. Nurse Lourdes is teaching a client recovering from addisonian crisis about the need to take fludrocortisone acetate and hydrocortisone at home. Which statement by the client indicates an understanding of the instructions?
“I’ll take my hydrocortisone in the late afternoon, before dinner.”
“I’ll take all of my hydrocortisone in the morning, right after I wake up.”
“I’ll take two-thirds of the dose when I wake up and one-third in the late afternoon.”
“I’ll take the entire dose at bedtime.”
81. Which of the following laboratory test results would suggest to the nurse Len that a client has a corticotropin-secreting pituitary adenoma?
High corticotropin and low cortisol levels
Low corticotropin and high cortisol levels
High corticotropin and high cortisol levels
Low corticotropin and low cortisol levels
82. A male client is scheduled for a transsphenoidal hypophysectomy to remove a pituitary tumor. Preoperatively, the nurse should assess  for potential complications by doing which of the following?
Testing for ketones in the urine
Testing urine specific gravity
Checking temperature every 4 hours
Performing capillary glucose testing every 4 hours
83. Capillary glucose monitoring is being performed every 4 hours for a client diagnosed with diabetic ketoacidosis. Insulin is administered using a scale of regular insulin according to glucose results. At 2 p.m., the client has a capillary glucose level of 250 mg/dl for which he receives 8 U of regular insulin. Nurse Mariner should expect the dose’s:
onset to be at 2 p.m. and its peak to be at 3 p.m.
onset to be at 2:15 p.m. and its peak to be at 3 p.m.
onset to be at 2:30 p.m. and its peak to be at 4 p.m.
onset to be at 4 p.m. and its peak to be at 6 p.m.
84. The physician orders laboratory tests to confirm hyperthyroidism in a female client with classic signs and symptoms of this disorder. Which test result would confirm the diagnosis?
No increase in the thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level after 30 minutes during the TSH stimulation test
A decreased TSH level
An increase in the TSH level after 30 minutes during the TSH stimulation test
Below-normal levels of serum triiodothyronine (T3) and serum thyroxine (T4) as detected by radioimmunoassay
85. Rico with diabetes mellitus must learn how to self-administer insulin. The physician has prescribed 10 U of U-100 regular insulin and 35 U of U-100 isophane insulin suspension (NPH) to be taken before breakfast. When teaching the client how to select and rotate insulin injection sites, the nurse should provide which instruction?
“Inject insulin into healthy tissue with large blood vessels and nerves.”
“Rotate injection sites within the same anatomic region, not among different regions.”
“Administer insulin into areas of scar tissue or hypotrophy whenever possible.”
“Administer insulin into sites above muscles that you plan to exercise heavily later that day.”
86. Nurse Sarah expects to note an elevated serum glucose level in a client with hyperosmolar hyperglycemic nonketotic syndrome (HHNS). Which other laboratory finding should the nurse anticipate?
Elevated serum acetone level
Serum ketone bodies
Serum alkalosis
Below-normal serum potassium level
87. For a client with Graves’ disease, which nursing intervention promotes comfort?
Restricting intake of oral fluids
Placing extra blankets on the client’s bed
Limiting intake of high-carbohydrate foods
Maintaining room temperature in the low-normal range
88. Patrick is treated in the emergency department for a Colles’ fracture sustained during a fall. What is a Colles’ fracture?
Fracture of the distal radius
Fracture of the olecranon
Fracture of the humerus
Fracture of the carpal scaphoid
89. Cleo is diagnosed with osteoporosis. Which electrolytes are involved in the development of this disorder?
Calcium and sodium
Calcium and phosphorous
Phosphorous and potassium
Potassium and sodium
90. Johnny a firefighter was involved in extinguishing a house fire and is being treated to smoke inhalation. He develops severe hypoxia 48 hours after the incident, requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation. He most likely has developed which of the following conditions?
Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
Atelectasis
Bronchitis
Pneumonia
91. A 67-year-old client develops acute shortness of breath and progressive hypoxia requiring right femur. The hypoxia was probably caused by which of the following conditions?
Asthma attack
Atelectasis
Bronchitis
Fat embolism
92. A client with shortness of breath has decreased to absent breath sounds on the right side, from the apex to the base. Which of the following conditions would best explain this?
Acute asthma
Chronic bronchitis
Pneumonia
Spontaneous pneumothorax
93. A 62-year-old male client was in a motor vehicle accident as an unrestrained driver. He’s now in the emergency department complaining of difficulty of breathing and chest pain. On auscultation of his lung field, no breath sounds are present in the upper lobe. This client may have which of the following conditions?
Bronchitis
Pneumonia
Pneumothorax
Tuberculosis (TB)
94. If a client requires a pneumonectomy, what fills the area of the thoracic cavity?
The space remains filled with air only
The surgeon fills the space with a gel
Serous fluids fills the space and consolidates the region
The tissue from the other lung grows over to the other side
95. Hemoptysis may be present in the client with a pulmonary embolism because of which of the following reasons?
Alveolar damage in the infracted area
Involvement of major blood vessels in the occluded area
Loss of lung parenchyma
Loss of lung tissue
96. Aldo with a massive pulmonary embolism will have an arterial blood gas analysis performed to determine the extent of hypoxia. The acid-base disorder that may be present is?
Metabolic acidosis
Metabolic alkalosis
Respiratory acidosis
Respiratory alkalosis
97. After a motor vehicle accident, Armand an 22-year-old client is admitted with a pneumothorax. The surgeon inserts a chest tube and attaches it to a chest drainage system. Bubbling soon appears in the water seal chamber. Which of the following is the most likely cause of the bubbling?
Air leak
Adequate suction
Inadequate suction
Kinked chest tube
98. Nurse Michelle calculates the IV flow rate for a postoperative client. The client receives 3,000 ml of Ringer’s lactate solution IV to run over 24 hours. The IV infusion set has a drop factor of 10 drops per milliliter. The nurse should regulate the client’s IV to deliver how many drops per minute?
18
21
35
40
99. Mickey, a 6-year-old child with a congenital heart disorder is admitted with congestive heart failure. Digoxin (lanoxin) 0.12 mg is ordered for the child. The bottle of Lanoxin contains .05 mg of Lanoxin in 1 ml of solution. What amount should the nurse administer to the child?
1.2 ml
2.4 ml
3.5 ml
4.2 ml
100. Nurse Alexandra teaches a client about elastic stockings. Which of the following statements, if made by the client, indicates to the   nurse that the teaching was successful?
“I will wear the stockings until the physician tells me to remove them.”
“I should wear the stockings even when I am sleep.”
“Every four hours I should remove the stockings for a half hour.”
“I should put on the stockings before getting out of bed in the morning.”