1. May arrives at the health care clinic and tells the nurse that her last menstrual period was 9 weeks ago. She also tells the nurse that a home pregnancy test was positive but she began to have mild cramps and is now having moderate vaginal bleeding. During the physical examination of the client, the nurse notes that May has a dilated cervix. The nurse determines that May is experiencing which type of abortion?
Inevitable
Incomplete
Threatened
Septic
2. Nurse Reese is reviewing the record of a pregnant client for her first prenatal visit. Which of the following data, if noted on the client’s record, would alert the nurse that the client is at risk for a spontaneous abortion?
Age 36 years
History of syphilis
History of genital herpes
History of diabetes mellitus
3. Nurse Hazel is preparing to care for a client who is newly admitted to the hospital with a possible diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy. Nurse Hazel develops a plan of care for the client and determines that which of the following nursing actions is the priority?
Monitoring weight
Assessing for edema
Monitoring apical pulse
Monitoring temperature
4. Nurse Oliver is teaching a diabetic pregnant client about nutrition and insulin needs during pregnancy. The nurse determines that the client understands dietary and insulin needs if the client states that the second half of pregnancy require:
Decreased caloric intake
Increased caloric intake
Decreased Insulin
Increase Insulin
5. Nurse Michelle is assessing a 24 year old client with a diagnosis of hydatidiform mole. She is aware that one of the following is unassociated with this condition?
Excessive fetal activity.
Larger than normal uterus for gestational age.
Vaginal bleeding
Elevated levels of human chorionic gonadotropin.
6. A pregnant client is receiving magnesium sulfate for severe pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH). The clinical findings that would warrant use of the antidote , calcium gluconate is:
Urinary output 90 cc in 2 hours.
Absent patellar reflexes.
Rapid respiratory rate above 40/min.
Rapid rise in blood pressure.
7. During vaginal examination of Janah who is in labor, the presenting part is at station plus two. Nurse, correctly interprets it as:
Presenting part is 2 cm above the plane of the ischial spines.
Biparietal diameter is at the level of the ischial spines.
Presenting part in 2 cm below the plane of the ischial spines.
Biparietal diameter is 2 cm above the ischial spines.
8. A pregnant client is receiving oxytocin (Pitocin) for induction of labor. A condition that warrant the nurse in-charge to discontinue I.V. infusion of Pitocin is:
Contractions every 1 ½ minutes lasting 70-80 seconds.
Maternal temperature 101.2
Early decelerations in the fetal heart rate.
Fetal heart rate baseline 140-160 bpm.
9. Calcium gluconate is being administered to a client with pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH). A nursing action that must be initiated as the plan of care throughout injection of the drug is:
Ventilator assistance
CVP readings
EKG tracings
Continuous CPR
10. A trial for vaginal delivery after an earlier caesareans, would likely to be given to a gravida, who had:
First low transverse cesarean was for active herpes type 2 infections; vaginal culture at 39 weeks pregnancy was positive.
First and second caesareans were for cephalopelvic disproportion.
First caesarean through a classic incision as a result of severe fetal distress.
First low transverse caesarean was for breech position. Fetus in this pregnancy is in a vertex presentation.
11.Nurse Ryan is aware that the best initial approach when trying to take a crying toddler’s temperature is:
Talk to the mother first and then to the toddler.
Bring extra help so it can be done quickly.
Encourage the mother to hold the child.
Ignore the crying and screaming.
12.Baby Tina a 3 month old infant just had a cleft lip and palate repair. What should the nurse do to prevent trauma to operative site?
Avoid touching the suture line, even when cleaning.
Place the baby in prone position.
Give the baby a pacifier.
Place the infant’s arms in soft elbow restraints.
13. Which action should nurse Marian include in the care plan for a 2 month old with heart failure?
Feed the infant when he cries.
Allow the infant to rest before feeding.
Bathe the infant and administer medications before feeding.
Weigh and bathe the infant before feeding.
14.Nurse Hazel is teaching a mother who plans to discontinue breast feeding after 5 months. The nurse should advise her to include which foods in her infant’s diet?
Skim milk and baby food.
Whole milk and baby food.
Iron-rich formula only.
Iron-rich formula and baby food.
15.Mommy Linda is playing with her infant, who is sitting securely alone on the floor of the clinic. The mother hides a toy behind her back and the infant looks for it. The nurse is aware that estimated age of the infant would be:
6 months
4 months
8 months
10 months
16.Which of the following is the most prominent feature of public health nursing?
It involves providing home care to sick people who are not confined in the hospital.
Services are provided free of charge to people within the catchments area.
The public health nurse functions as part of a team providing a public health nursing services.
Public health nursing focuses on preventive, not curative, services.
17.When the nurse determines whether resources were maximized in implementing Ligtas Tigdas, she is evaluating
Effectiveness
Efficiency
Adequacy
Appropriateness
18.Vangie is a new B.S.N. graduate. She wants to become a Public Health Nurse. Where should she apply?
Department of Health
Provincial Health Office
Regional Health Office
Rural Health Unit
19.Tony is aware the Chairman of the Municipal Health Board is:
Mayor
Municipal Health Officer
Public Health Nurse
Any qualified physician
20.Myra is the public health nurse in a municipality with a total population of about 20,000. There are 3 rural health midwives among the RHU personnel. How many more midwife items will the RHU need?
1
2
3
The RHU does not need any more midwife item.