1. In the Philippines, which condition is the most frequent cause of death associated with schistosomiasis?

Liver cancer
Liver cirrhosis
Bladder cancer
Intestinal perforation
2. What is the most effective way of controlling schistosomiasis in an endemic area?

Use of molluscicides
Building of foot bridges
Proper use of sanitary toilets
Use of protective footwear, such as rubber boots
3. When residents obtain water from an artesian well in the neighborhood, the level of this approved type of water facility is

I
II
III
IV
4. For prevention of hepatitis A, you decided to conduct health education activities. Which of the following is IRRELEVANT?

Use of sterile syringes and needles
Safe food preparation and food handling by vendors
Proper disposal of human excreta and personal hygiene
Immediate reporting of water pipe leaks and illegal water connections
5. Which biological used in Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) should NOT be stored in the freezer?

DPT
Oral polio vaccine
Measles vaccine
MMR
6. You will conduct outreach immunization in a barangay with a population of about 1500. Estimate the number of infants in the barangay.

45
50
55
60
7. In Integrated Management of Childhood Illness, severe conditions generally require urgent referral to a hospital. Which of the following severe conditions DOES NOT always require urgent referral to a hospital?

Mastoiditis
Severe dehydration
Severe pneumonia
Severe febrile disease
8. A client was diagnosed as having Dengue fever. You will say that there is slow capillary refill when the color of the nailbed that you pressed does not return within how many seconds?

3
5
8
10
9. A 3-year old child was brought by his mother to the health center because of fever of 4-day duration. The child had a positive tourniquet test result. In the absence of other signs, which is the most appropriate measure that the PHN may carry out to prevent Dengue shock syndrome?

Insert an NGT and give fluids per NGT.
Instruct the mother to give the child Oresol.
Start the patient on intravenous fluids STAT.
Refer the client to the physician for appropriate management.
10. The pathognomonic sign of measles is Koplik’s spot. You may see Koplik’s spot by inspecting the _____.

Nasal mucosa
Buccal mucosa
Skin on the abdomen
Skin on the antecubital surface
11. Among the following diseases, which is airborne?

Viral conjunctivitis
Acute poliomyelitis
Diphtheria
Measles
12. Among children aged 2 months to 3 years, the most prevalent form of meningitis is caused by which microorganism?

Hemophilus influenzae
Morbillivirus
Steptococcus pneumoniae
Neisseria meningitidis
13. Human beings are the major reservoir of malaria. Which of the following strategies in malaria control is based on this fact?

Stream seeding
Stream clearing
Destruction of breeding places
Zooprophylaxis
14. The use of larvivorous fish in malaria control is the basis for which strategy of malaria control?

Stream seeding
Stream clearing
Destruction of breeding places
Zooprophylaxis
15. Mosquito-borne diseases are prevented mostly with the use of mosquito control measures. Which of the following is NOT appropriate for malaria control?

Use of chemically treated mosquito nets
Seeding of breeding places with larva-eating fish
Destruction of breeding places of the mosquito vector
Use of mosquito-repelling soaps, such as those with basil or citronella
16. A 4-year old client was brought to the health center with the chief complaint of severe diarrhea and the passage of “rice water” stools. The client is most probably suffering from which condition?

Giardiasis
Cholera
Amebiasis
Dysentery
17. In the Philippines, which specie of schistosoma is endemic in certain regions?

S. mansoni
S. japonicum
S. malayensis
S. haematobium
18. A 32-year old client came for consultation at the health center with the chief complaint of fever for a week. Accompanying symptoms were muscle pains and body malaise. A week after the start of fever, the client noted yellowish discoloration of his sclera. History showed that he waded in flood waters about 2 weeks before the onset of symptoms. Based on his history, which disease condition will you suspect?

Hepatitis A
Hepatitis B
Tetanus
Leptospirosis
19. MWSS provides water to Manila and other cities in Metro Manila. This is an example of which level of water facility?

I
II
III
IV
20. You are the PHN in the city health center. A client underwent screening for AIDS using ELISA. His result was positive. What is the best course of action that you may take?

Get a thorough history of the client, focusing on the practice of high risk behaviors.
Ask the client to be accompanied by a significant person before revealing the result.
Refer the client to the physician since he is the best person to reveal the result to the client.
Refer the client for a supplementary test, such as Western blot, since the ELISA result may be false.
21. Which is the BEST control measure for AIDS?

Being faithful to a single sexual partner
Using a condom during each sexual contact
Avoiding sexual contact with commercial sex workers
Making sure that one’s sexual partner does not have signs of AIDS
22. The most frequent causes of death among clients with AIDS are opportunistic diseases. Which of the following opportunistic infections is characterized by tonsillopharyngitis?

Respiratory candidiasis
Infectious mononucleosis
Cytomegalovirus disease
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia
23. To determine possible sources of sexually transmitted infections, which is the BEST method that may be undertaken by the public health nurse?

Contact tracing
Community survey
Mass screening tests
Interview of suspects
24. Antiretroviral agents, such as AZT, are used in the management of AIDS. Which of the following is NOT an action expected of these drugs.

They prolong the life of the client with AIDS.
They reduce the risk of opportunistic infections
They shorten the period of communicability of the disease.
They are able to bring about a cure of the disease condition.
25. A barangay had an outbreak of German measles. To prevent congenital rubella, what is the BEST advice that you can give to women in the first trimester of pregnancy in the barangay?

Advice them on the signs of German measles.
Avoid crowded places, such as markets and moviehouses.
Consult at the health center where rubella vaccine may be given.
Consult a physician who may give them rubella immunoglobulin.
26. You were invited to be the resource person in a training class for food handlers. Which of the following would you emphasize regarding prevention of staphylococcal food poisoning?

All cooking and eating utensils must be thoroughly washed.
Food must be cooked properly to destroy staphylococcal microorganisms.
Food handlers and food servers must have a negative stool examination result.
Proper handwashing during food preparation is the best way of preventing the condition.
27. In a mothers’ class, you discussed childhood diseases such as chicken pox. Which of the following statements about chicken pox is correct?

The older one gets, the more susceptible he becomes to the complications of chicken pox.
A single attack of chicken pox will prevent future episodes, including conditions such as shingles.
To prevent an outbreak in the community, quarantine may be imposed by health authorities.
Chicken pox vaccine is best given when there is an impending outbreak in the community.
28. Complications to infectious parotitis (mumps) may be serious in which type of clients?

Pregnant women
Elderly clients
Young adult males
Young infants