21.According to Freeman and Heinrich, community health nursing is a developmental service. Which of the following best illustrates this statement?
The community health nurse continuously develops himself personally and professionally.
Health education and community organizing are necessary in providing community health services.
Community health nursing is intended primarily for health promotion and prevention and treatment of disease.
The goal of community health nursing is to provide nursing services to people in their own places of residence.
22.Nurse Tina is aware that the disease declared through Presidential Proclamation No. 4 as a target for eradication in the Philippines is?
Poliomyelitis
Measles
Rabies
Neonatal tetanus
23.May knows that the step in community organizing that involves training of potential leaders in the community is:
Integration
Community organization
Community study
Core group formation
24.Beth a public health nurse takes an active role in community participation. What is the primary goal of community organizing?
To educate the people regarding community health problems
To mobilize the people to resolve community health problems
To maximize the community’s resources in dealing with health problems.
To maximize the community’s resources in dealing with health problems.
25.Tertiary prevention is needed in which stage of the natural history of disease?
Pre-pathogenesis
Pathogenesis
Prodromal
Terminal
26.The nurse is caring for a primigravid client in the labor and delivery area. Which condition would place the client at risk for disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)?
Intrauterine fetal death.
Placenta accreta.
Dysfunctional labor.
Premature rupture of the membranes.
27.A fullterm client is in labor. Nurse Betty is aware that the fetal heart rate would be:
80 to 100 beats/minute
100 to 120 beats/minute
120 to 160 beats/minute
160 to 180 beats/minute
28.The skin in the diaper area of a 7 month old infant is excoriated and red. Nurse Hazel should instruct the mother to:
Change the diaper more often.
Apply talc powder with diaper changes.
Wash the area vigorously with each diaper change.
Decrease the infant’s fluid intake to decrease saturating diapers.
29.Nurse Carla knows that the common cardiac anomalies in children with Down Syndrome (tri-somy 21) is:
Atrial septal defect
Pulmonic stenosis
Ventricular septal defect
Endocardial cushion defect
30.Malou was diagnosed with severe preeclampsia is now receiving I.V. magnesium sulfate. The adverse effects associated with magnesium sulfate is:
Anemia
Decreased urine output
Hyperreflexia
Increased respiratory rate
31.A 23 year old client is having her menstrual period every 2 weeks that last for 1 week. This type of menstrual pattern is bets defined by:
Menorrhagia
Metrorrhagia
Dyspareunia
Amenorrhea
32. Jannah is admitted to the labor and delivery unit. The critical laboratory result for this client would be:
Oxygen saturation
Iron binding capacity
Blood typing
Serum Calcium
33.Nurse Gina is aware that the most common condition found during the second-trimester of pregnancy is:
Metabolic alkalosis
Respiratory acidosis
Mastitis
Physiologic anemia
34.Nurse Lynette is working in the triage area of an emergency department. She sees that several pediatric clients arrive simultaneously. The client who needs to be treated first is:
A crying 5 year old child with a laceration on his scalp.
A 4 year old child with a barking coughs and flushed appearance.
A 3 year old child with Down syndrome who is pale and asleep in his mother’s arms.
A 2 year old infant with stridorous breath sounds, sitting up in his mother’s arms and drooling.
35.Maureen in her third trimester arrives at the emergency room with painless vaginal bleeding. Which of the following conditions is suspected?
Placenta previa
Abruptio placentae
Premature labor
Sexually transmitted disease
36.A young child named Richard is suspected of having pinworms. The community nurse collects a stool specimen to confirm the diagnosis. The nurse should schedule the collection of this specimen for:
Just before bedtime
After the child has been bathe
Any time during the day
Early in the morning
37.In doing a child’s admission assessment, Nurse Betty should be alert to note which signs or symptoms of chronic lead poisoning?
Irritability and seizures
Dehydration and diarrhea
Bradycardia and hypotension
Petechiae and hematuria
38.To evaluate a woman’s understanding about the use of diaphragm for family planning, Nurse Trish asks her to explain how she will use the appliance. Which response indicates a need for further health teaching?
“I should check the diaphragm carefully for holes every time I use it”
“I may need a different size of diaphragm if I gain or lose weight more than 20 pounds”
“The diaphragm must be left in place for atleast 6 hours after intercourse”
“I really need to use the diaphragm and jelly most during the middle of my menstrual cycle”.
39.Hypoxia is a common complication of laryngotracheobronchitis. Nurse Oliver should frequently assess a child with laryngotracheobronchitis for:
Drooling
Muffled voice
Restlessness
Low-grade fever
40.How should Nurse Michelle guide a child who is blind to walk to the playroom?
Without touching the child, talk continuously as the child walks down the hall.
Walk one step ahead, with the child’s hand on the nurse’s elbow.
Walk slightly behind, gently guiding the child forward.
Walk next to the child, holding the child’s hand.