41.When assessing a newborn diagnosed with ductus arteriosus, Nurse Olivia should expect that the child most likely would have an:
Loud, machinery-like murmur.
Bluish color to the lips.
Decreased BP reading in the upper extremities
Increased BP reading in the upper extremities.
42.The reason nurse May keeps the neonate in a neutral thermal environment is that when a newborn becomes too cool, the neonate requires:
Less oxygen, and the newborn’s metabolic rate increases.
More oxygen, and the newborn’s metabolic rate decreases.
More oxygen, and the newborn’s metabolic rate increases.
Less oxygen, and the newborn’s metabolic rate decreases.
43.Before adding potassium to an infant’s I.V. line, Nurse Ron must be sure to assess whether this infant has:
Stable blood pressure
Patant fontanelles
Moro’s reflex
Voided
44.Nurse Carla should know that the most common causative factor of dermatitis in infants and younger children is:
Baby oil
Baby lotion
Laundry detergent
Powder with cornstarch
45.During tube feeding, how far above an infant’s stomach should the nurse hold the syringe with formula?
6 inches
12 inches
18 inches
24 inches
46. In a mothers’ class, Nurse Lhynnete discussed childhood diseases such as chicken pox. Which of the following statements about chicken pox is correct?
The older one gets, the more susceptible he becomes to the complications of chicken pox.
A single attack of chicken pox will prevent future episodes, including conditions such as shingles.
To prevent an outbreak in the community, quarantine may be imposed by health authorities.
Chicken pox vaccine is best given when there is an impending outbreak in the community.
47.Barangay Pinoy had an outbreak of German measles. To prevent congenital rubella, what is the BEST advice that you can give to women in the first trimester of pregnancy in the barangay Pinoy?
Advice them on the signs of German measles.
Avoid crowded places, such as markets and movie houses.
Consult at the health center where rubella vaccine may be given.
Consult a physician who may give them rubella immunoglobulin.
48.Myrna a public health nurse knows that to determine possible sources of sexually transmitted infections, the BEST method that may be undertaken is:
Contact tracing
Community survey
Mass screening tests
Interview of suspects
49.A 33-year old female client came for consultation at the health center with the chief complaint of fever for a week. Accompanying symptoms were muscle pains and body malaise. A week after the start of fever, the client noted yellowish discoloration of his sclera. History showed that he waded in flood waters about 2 weeks before the onset of symptoms. Based on her history, which disease condition will you suspect?
Hepatitis A
Hepatitis B
Tetanus
Leptospirosis
50.Mickey a 3-year old client was brought to the health center with the chief complaint of severe diarrhea and the passage of “rice water” stools. The client is most probably suffering from which condition?
Giardiasis
Cholera
Amebiasis
Dysentery
51.The most prevalent form of meningitis among children aged 2 months to 3 years is caused by which microorganism?
Hemophilus influenzae
Morbillivirus
Steptococcus pneumoniae
Neisseria meningitidis
52.The student nurse is aware that the pathognomonic sign of measles is Koplik’s spot and you may see Koplik’s spot by inspecting the:
Nasal mucosa
Buccal mucosa
Skin on the abdomen
Skin on neck
53.Angel was diagnosed as having Dengue fever. You will say that there is slow capillary refill when the color of the nailbed that you pressed does not return within how many seconds?
3 seconds
6 seconds
9 seconds
10 seconds
54.In Integrated Management of Childhood Illness, the nurse is aware that the severe conditions generally require urgent referral to a hospital. Which of the following severe conditions DOES NOT always require urgent referral to a hospital?
Mastoiditis
Severe dehydration
Severe pneumonia
Severe febrile disease
55.Myrna a public health nurse will conduct outreach immunization in a barangay Masay with a population of about 1500. The estimated number of infants in the barangay would be:
45 infants
50 infants
55 infants
65 infants
56.The community nurse is aware that the biological used in Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) should NOT be stored in the freezer?
DPT
Oral polio vaccine
Measles vaccine
MMR
57.It is the most effective way of controlling schistosomiasis in an endemic area?
Use of molluscicides
Building of foot bridges
Proper use of sanitary toilets
Use of protective footwear, such as rubber boots
58.Several clients is newly admitted and diagnosed with leprosy. Which of the following clients should be classified as a case of multibacillary leprosy?
3 skin lesions, negative slit skin smear
3 skin lesions, positive slit skin smear
5 skin lesions, negative slit skin smear
5 skin lesions, positive slit skin smear
59.Nurses are aware that diagnosis of leprosy is highly dependent on recognition of symptoms. Which of the following is an early sign of leprosy?
Macular lesions
Inability to close eyelids
Thickened painful nerves
Sinking of the nosebridge
60.Marie brought her 10 month old infant for consultation because of fever, started 4 days prior to consultation. In determining malaria risk, what will you do?
Perform a tourniquet test.
Ask where the family resides.
Get a specimen for blood smear.
Ask if the fever is present everyday.