61.Susie brought her 4 years old daughter to the RHU because of cough and colds. Following the IMCI assessment guide, which of the following is a danger sign that indicates the need for urgent referral to a hospital?
Inability to drink
High grade fever
Signs of severe dehydration
Cough for more than 30 days
62.Jimmy a 2-year old child revealed “baggy pants”. As a nurse, using the IMCI guidelines, how will you manage Jimmy?
Refer the child urgently to a hospital for confinement.
Coordinate with the social worker to enroll the child in a feeding program.
Make a teaching plan for the mother, focusing on menu planning for her child.
Assess and treat the child for health problems like infections and intestinal parasitism.
63.Gina is using Oresol in the management of diarrhea of her 3-year old child. She asked you what to do if her child vomits. As a nurse you will tell her to:
Bring the child to the nearest hospital for further assessment.
Bring the child to the health center for intravenous fluid therapy.
Bring the child to the health center for assessment by the physician.
Let the child rest for 10 minutes then continue giving Oresol more slowly.
64.Nikki a 5-month old infant was brought by his mother to the health center because of diarrhea for 4 to 5 times a day. Her skin goes back slowly after a skin pinch and her eyes are sunken. Using the IMCI guidelines, you will classify this infant in which category?
No signs of dehydration
Some dehydration
Severe dehydration
The data is insufficient.
65.Chris a 4-month old infant was brought by her mother to the health center because of cough. His respiratory rate is 42/minute. Using the Integrated Management of Child Illness (IMCI) guidelines of assessment, his breathing is considered as:
Fast
Slow
Normal
Insignificant
66.Maylene had just received her 4th dose of tetanus toxoid. She is aware that her baby will have protection against tetanus for
1 year
3 years
5 years
Lifetime
67.Nurse Ron is aware that unused BCG should be discarded after how many hours of reconstitution?
2 hours
4 hours
8 hours
At the end of the day
68.The nurse explains to a breastfeeding mother that breast milk is sufficient for all of the baby’s nutrient needs only up to:
5 months
6 months
1 year
2 years
69.Nurse Ron is aware that the gestational age of a conceptus that is considered viable (able to live outside the womb) is:
8 weeks
12 weeks
24 weeks
32 weeks
70.When teaching parents of a neonate the proper position for the neonate’s sleep, the nurse Patricia stresses the importance of placing the neonate on his back to reduce the risk of which of the following?
Aspiration
Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)
Suffocation
Gastroesophageal reflux (GER)
71.Which finding might be seen in baby James a neonate suspected of having an infection?
Flushed cheeks
Increased temperature
Decreased temperature
Increased activity level
72.Baby Jenny who is small-for-gestation is at increased risk during the transitional period for which complication?
Anemia probably due to chronic fetal hyposia
Hyperthermia due to decreased glycogen stores
Hyperglycemia due to decreased glycogen stores
Polycythemia probably due to chronic fetal hypoxia
73.Marjorie has just given birth at 42 weeks’ gestation. When the nurse assessing the neonate, which physical finding is expected?
A sleepy, lethargic baby
Lanugo covering the body
Desquamation of the epidermis
Vernix caseosa covering the body
74.After reviewing the Myrna’s maternal history of magnesium sulfate during labor, which condition would nurse Richard anticipate as a potential problem in the neonate?
Hypoglycemia
Jitteriness
Respiratory depression
Tachycardia
75.Which symptom would indicate the Baby Alexandra was adapting appropriately to extra-uterine life without difficulty?
Nasal flaring
Light audible grunting
Respiratory rate 40 to 60 breaths/minute
Respiratory rate 60 to 80 breaths/minute
76. When teaching umbilical cord care for Jennifer a new mother, the nurse Jenny would include which information?
Apply peroxide to the cord with each diaper change
Cover the cord with petroleum jelly after bathing
Keep the cord dry and open to air
Wash the cord with soap and water each day during a tub bath.
77.Nurse John is performing an assessment on a neonate. Which of the following findings is considered common in the healthy neonate?
Simian crease
Conjunctival hemorrhage
Cystic hygroma
Bulging fontanelle
78.Dr. Esteves decides to artificially rupture the membranes of a mother who is on labor. Following this procedure, the nurse Hazel checks the fetal heart tones for which the following reasons?
To determine fetal well-being.
To assess for prolapsed cord
To assess fetal position
To prepare for an imminent delivery.
79.Which of the following would be least likely to indicate anticipated bonding behaviors by new parents?
The parents’ willingness to touch and hold the new born.
The parent’s expression of interest about the size of the new born.
The parents’ indication that they want to see the newborn.
The parents’ interactions with each other.
80.Following a precipitous delivery, examination of the client’s vagina reveals a fourth-degree laceration. Which of the following would be contraindicated when caring for this client?
Applying cold to limit edema during the first 12 to 24 hours.
Instructing the client to use two or more peripads to cushion the area.
Instructing the client on the use of sitz baths if ordered.
Instructing the client about the importance of perineal (kegel) exercises.