81. A pregnant woman accompanied by her husband, seeks admission to the labor and delivery area. She states that she’s in labor and says she attended the facility clinic for prenatal care. Which question should the nurse Oliver ask her first?
“Do you have any chronic illnesses?”
“Do you have any allergies?”
“What is your expected due date?”
“Who will be with you during labor?”
82.A neonate begins to gag and turns a dusky color. What should the nurse do first?
Calm the neonate.
Notify the physician.
Provide oxygen via face mask as ordered
Aspirate the neonate’s nose and mouth with a bulb syringe.
83. When a client states that her “water broke,” which of the following actions would be inappropriate for the nurse to do?
Observing the pooling of straw-colored fluid.
Checking vaginal discharge with nitrazine paper.
Conducting a bedside ultrasound for an amniotic fluid index.
Observing for flakes of vernix in the vaginal discharge.
84. A baby girl is born 8 weeks premature. At birth, she has no spontaneous respirations but is successfully resuscitated. Within several hours she develops respiratory grunting, cyanosis, tachypnea, nasal flaring, and retractions. She’s diagnosed with respiratory distress syndrome, intubated, and placed on a ventilator. Which nursing action should be included in the baby’s plan of care to prevent retinopathy of prematurity?
Cover his eyes while receiving oxygen.
Keep her body temperature low.
Monitor partial pressure of oxygen (Pao2) levels.
Humidify the oxygen.
85. Which of the following is normal newborn calorie intake?
110 to 130 calories per kg.
30 to 40 calories per lb of body weight.
At least 2 ml per feeding
90 to 100 calories per kg
86. Nurse John is knowledgeable that usually individual twins will grow appropriately and at the same rate as singletons until how many weeks?
16 to 18 weeks
18 to 22 weeks
30 to 32 weeks
38 to 40 weeks
87. Which of the following classifications applies to monozygotic twins for whom the cleavage of the fertilized ovum occurs more than 13 days after fertilization?
conjoined twins
diamniotic dichorionic twins
diamniotic monochorionic twin
monoamniotic monochorionic twins
88. Tyra experienced painless vaginal bleeding has just been diagnosed as having a placenta previa. Which of the following procedures is usually performed to diagnose placenta previa?
Amniocentesis
Digital or speculum examination
External fetal monitoring
Ultrasound
89. Nurse Arnold knows that the following changes in respiratory functioning during pregnancy is considered normal:
Increased tidal volume
Increased expiratory volume
Decreased inspiratory capacity
Decreased oxygen consumption
90. Emily has gestational diabetes and it is usually managed by which of the following therapy?
Diet
Long-acting insulin
Oral hypoglycemic
Oral hypoglycemic drug and insulin
91. Magnesium sulfate is given to Jemma with preeclampsia to prevent which of the following condition?
Hemorrhage
Hypertension
Hypomagnesemia
Seizure
92. Cammile with sickle cell anemia has an increased risk for having a sickle cell crisis during pregnancy. Aggressive management of a sickle cell crisis includes which of the following measures?
Antihypertensive agents
Diuretic agents
I.V. fluids
Acetaminophen (Tylenol) for pain
93. Which of the following drugs is the antidote for magnesium toxicity?
Calcium gluconate (Kalcinate)
Hydralazine (Apresoline)
Naloxone (Narcan)
Rho (D) immune globulin (RhoGAM)
94. Marlyn is screened for tuberculosis during her first prenatal visit. An intradermal injection of purified protein derivative (PPD) of the tuberculin bacilli is given. She is considered to have a positive test for which of the following results?
An indurated wheal under 10 mm in diameter appears in 6 to 12 hours.
An indurated wheal over 10 mm in diameter appears in 48 to 72 hours.
A flat circumcised area under 10 mm in diameter appears in 6 to 12 hours.
A flat circumcised area over 10 mm in diameter appears in 48 to 72 hours.
95. Dianne, 24 year-old is 27 weeks’ pregnant arrives at her physician’s office with complaints of fever, nausea, vomiting, malaise, unilateral flank pain, and costovertebral angle tenderness. Which of the following diagnoses is most likely?
Asymptomatic bacteriuria
Bacterial vaginosis
Pyelonephritis
Urinary tract infection (UTI)
96. Rh isoimmunization in a pregnant client develops during which of the following conditions?
Rh-positive maternal blood crosses into fetal blood, stimulating fetal antibodies.
Rh-positive fetal blood crosses into maternal blood, stimulating maternal antibodies.
Rh-negative fetal blood crosses into maternal blood, stimulating maternal antibodies.
Rh-negative maternal blood crosses into fetal blood, stimulating fetal antibodies.
97. To promote comfort during labor, the nurse John advises a client to assume certain positions and avoid others. Which position may cause maternal hypotension and fetal hypoxia?
Lateral position
Squatting position
Supine position
Standing position
98. Celeste who used heroin during her pregnancy delivers a neonate. When assessing the neonate, the nurse Lhynnette expects to find:
Lethargy 2 days after birth.
Irritability and poor sucking.
A flattened nose, small eyes, and thin lips.
Congenital defects such as limb anomalies.
99. The uterus returns to the pelvic cavity in which of the following time frames?
7th to 9th day postpartum.
2 weeks postpartum.
End of 6th week postpartum.
When the lochia changes to alba.
100. Maureen, a primigravida client, age 20, has just completed a difficult, forceps-assisted delivery of twins. Her labor was unusually long and required oxytocin (Pitocin) augmentation. The nurse who’s caring for her should stay alert for:
Uterine inversion
Uterine atony
Uterine involution
Uterine discomfort