1. Which is the primary goal of community health nursing?

To support and supplement the efforts of the medical profession in the promotion of health and prevention of illness
To enhance the capacity of individuals, families and communities to cope with their health needs
To increase the productivity of the people by providing them with services that will increase their level of health
To contribute to national development through promotion of family welfare, focusing particularly on mothers and children.
2. CHN is a community-based practice. Which best explains this statement?

The service is provided in the natural environment of people.
The nurse has to conduct community diagnosis to determine nursing needs and problems.
The services are based on the available resources within the community.
Priority setting is based on the magnitude of the health problems identified.
3. Population-focused nursing practice requires which of the following processes?

Community organizing
Nursing process
Community diagnosis
Epidemiologic process
4. R.A. 1054 is also known as the Occupational Health Act. Aside from number of employees, what other factor must be considered in determining the occupational health privileges to which the workers will be entitled?

Type of occupation: agricultural, commercial, industrial
Location of the workplace in relation to health facilities
Classification of the business enterprise based on net profit
Sex and age composition of employees
5. A business firm must employ an occupational health nurse when it has at least how many employees?

21
101
201
301
6. When the occupational health nurse employs ergonomic principles, she is performing which of her roles?

Health care provider
Health educator
Health care coordinator
Environmental manager
7. A garment factory does not have an occupational nurse. Who shall provide the occupational health needs of the factory workers?

Occupational health nurse at the Provincial Health Office
Physician employed by the factory
Public health nurse of the RHU of their municipality
Rural sanitary inspector of the RHU of their municipality
8. “Public health services are given free of charge.” Is this statement true or false?

The statement is true; it is the responsibility of government to provide basic services.
The statement is false; people pay indirectly for public health services.
The statement may be true or false, depending on the specific service required.
The statement may be true or false, depending on policies of the government concerned.
9. According to C.E.Winslow, which of the following is the goal of Public Health?

For people to attain their birthrights of health and longevity
For promotion of health and prevention of disease
For people to have access to basic health services
For people to be organized in their health efforts
10. We say that a Filipino has attained longevity when he is able to reach the average lifespan of Filipinos. What other statistic may be used to determine attainment of longevity?

Age-specific mortality rate
Proportionate mortality rate
Swaroop’s index
Case fatality rate
11. Which of the following is the most prominent feature of public health nursing?

It involves providing home care to sick people who are not confined in the hospital.
Services are provided free of charge to people within the catchment area.
The public health nurse functions as part of a team providing a public health nursing services.
Public health nursing focuses on preventive, not curative, services.
12. According to Margaret Shetland, the philosophy of public health nursing is based on which of the following?

Health and longevity as birthrights
The mandate of the state to protect the birthrights of its citizens
Public health nursing as a specialized field of nursing
The worth and dignity of man
13. Which of the following is the mission of the Department of Health?

Health for all Filipinos
Ensure the accessibility and quality of health care
Improve the general health status of the population
Health in the hands of the Filipino people by the year 2020
14. Region IV Hospital is classified as what level of facility?

Primary
Secondary
Intermediate
Tertiary
15. Which is true of primary facilities?

They are usually government-run.
Their services are provided on an out-patient basis.
They are training facilities for health professionals.
A community hospital is an example of this level of health facilities.
16. Which is an example of the school nurse’s health care provider functions?

Requesting for BCG from the RHU for school entrant immunization
Conducting random classroom inspection during a measles epidemic
Taking remedial action on an accident hazard in the school playground
Observing places in the school where pupils spend their free time
17. When the nurse determines whether resources were maximized in implementing Ligtas Tigdas, she is evaluating

Effectiveness
Efficiency
Adequacy
Appropriateness
18. You are a new B.S.N. graduate. You want to become a Public Health Nurse. Where will you apply?

Department of Health
Provincial Health Office
Regional Health Office
Rural Health Unit
19. R.A. 7160 mandates devolution of basic services from the national government to local government units. Which of the following is the major goal of devolution?

To strengthen local government units
To allow greater autonomy to local government units
To empower the people and promote their self-reliance
To make basic services more accessible to the people
20. Who is the Chairman of the Municipal Health Board?

Mayor
Municipal Health Officer
Public Health Nurse
Any qualified physician
21. Which level of health facility is the usual point of entry of a client into the health care delivery system?

Primary
Secondary
Intermediate
Tertiary
22. The public health nurse is the supervisor of rural health midwives. Which of the following is a supervisory function of the public health nurse?

Referring cases or patients to the midwife
Providing technical guidance to the midwife
Providing nursing care to cases referred by the midwife
Formulating and implementing training programs for midwives
23. One of the participants in a hilot training class asked you to whom she should refer a patient in labor who develops a complication. You will answer, to the

Public Health Nurse
Rural Health Midwife
Municipal Health Officer
Any of these health professionals
24. You are the public health nurse in a municipality with a total population of about 20,000. There are 3 rural health midwives among the RHU personnel. How many more midwife items will the RHU need?

1
2
3
The RHU does not need any more midwife item.
25. If the RHU needs additional midwife items, you will submit the request for additional midwife items for approval to the

Rural Health Unit
District Health Office
Provincial Health Office
Municipal Health Board
26. As an epidemiologist, the nurse is responsible for reporting cases of notifiable diseases. What law mandates reporting of cases of notifiable diseases?

Act 3573
R.A. 3753
R.A. 1054
R.A. 1082
27. According to Freeman and Heinrich, community health nursing is a developmental service. Which of the following best illustrates this statement?

The community health nurse continuously develops himself personally and professionally.
Health education and community organizing are necessary in providing community health services.
Community health nursing is intended primarily for health promotion and prevention and treatment of disease.
The goal of community health nursing is to provide nursing services to people in their own places of residence.
28. Which disease was declared through Presidential Proclamation No. 4 as a target for eradication in the Philippines?

Poliomyelitis
Measles
Rabies
Neonatal tetanus
29. The public health nurse is responsible for presenting the municipal health statistics using graphs and tables. To compare the frequency of the leading causes of mortality in the municipality, which graph will you prepare?

Line
Bar
Pie
Scatter diagram
30. Which step in community organizing involves training of potential leaders in the community?

Integration
Community organization
Community study
Core group formation