1. In which step are plans formulated for solving community problems?

Mobilization
Community organization
Follow-up/extension
Core group formation
2. The public health nurse takes an active role in community participation. What is the primary goal of community organizing?

To educate the people regarding community health problems
To mobilize the people to resolve community health problems
To maximize the community’s resources in dealing with health problems
To maximize the community’s resources in dealing with health problems
3. An indicator of success in community organizing is when people are able to

Participate in community activities for the solution of a community problem
Implement activities for the solution of the community problem
Plan activities for the solution of the community problem
Identify the health problem as a common concern
4. Tertiary prevention is needed in which stage of the natural history of disease?

Pre-pathogenesis
Pathogenesis
Prodromal
Terminal
5. Isolation of a child with measles belongs to what level of prevention?

Primary
Secondary
Intermediate
Tertiary
6. On the other hand, Operation Timbang is _____ prevention.

Primary
Secondary
Intermediate
Tertiary
7. Which type of family-nurse contact will provide you with the best opportunity to observe family dynamics?

Clinic consultation
Group conference
Home visit
Written communication
8. The typology of family nursing problems is used in the statement of nursing diagnosis in the care of families. The youngest child of the de los Reyes family has been diagnosed as mentally retarded. This is classified as a:

Health threat
Health deficit
Foreseeable crisis
Stress point
9. The de los Reyes couple have a 6-year old child entering school for the first time. The de los Reyes family has a:

Health threat
Health deficit
Foreseeable crisis
Stress point
10. Which of the following is an advantage of a home visit?

It allows the nurse to provide nursing care to a greater number of people.
It provides an opportunity to do first hand appraisal of the home situation.
It allows sharing of experiences among people with similar health problems.
It develops the family’s initiative in providing for health needs of its members.
11. Which is CONTRARY to the principles in planning a home visit?

A home visit should have a purpose or objective.
The plan should revolve around family health needs.
A home visit should be conducted in the manner prescribed by the RHU.
Planning of continuing care should involve a responsible family member.
12. The PHN bag is an important tool in providing nursing care during a home visit. The most important principle of bag technique states that it

Should save time and effort.
Should minimize if not totally prevent the spread of infection.
Should not overshadow concern for the patient and his family.
May be done in a variety of ways depending on the home situation, etc.
13. To maintain the cleanliness of the bag and its contents, which of the following must the nurse do?

Wash his/her hands before and after providing nursing care to the family members.
In the care of family members, as much as possible, use only articles taken from the bag.
Put on an apron to protect her uniform and fold it with the right side out before putting it back into the bag.
At the end of the visit, fold the lining on which the bag was placed, ensuring that the contaminated side is on the outside.
14. The public health nurse conducts a study on the factors contributing to the high mortality rate due to heart disease in the municipality where she works. Which branch of epidemiology does the nurse practice in this situation?

Descriptive
Analytical
Therapeutic
Evaluation
15. Which of the following is a function of epidemiology?

Identifying the disease condition based on manifestations presented by a client
Determining factors that contributed to the occurrence of pneumonia in a 3 year old
Determining the efficacy of the antibiotic used in the treatment of the 3 year old client with pneumonia
Evaluating the effectiveness of the implementation of the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
16. Which of the following is an epidemiologic function of the nurse during an epidemic?

Conducting assessment of suspected cases to detect the communicable disease
Monitoring the condition of the cases affected by the communicable disease
Participating in the investigation to determine the source of the epidemic
Teaching the community on preventive measures against the disease
17. The primary purpose of conducting an epidemiologic investigation is to

Delineate the etiology of the epidemic
Encourage cooperation and support of the community
Identify groups who are at risk of contracting the disease
Identify geographical location of cases of the disease in the community
18. Which is a characteristic of person-to-person propagated epidemics?

There are more cases of the disease than expected.
The disease must necessarily be transmitted through a vector.
The spread of the disease can be attributed to a common vehicle.
There is a gradual build up of cases before the epidemic becomes easily noticeable.
19. In the investigation of an epidemic, you compare the present frequency of the disease with the usual frequency at this time of the year in this community. This is done during which stage of the investigation?

Establishing the epidemic
Testing the hypothesis
Formulation of the hypothesis
Appraisal of facts
20. The number of cases of Dengue fever usually increases towards the end of the rainy season. This pattern of occurrence of Dengue fever is best described as

Epidemic occurrence
Cyclical variation
Sporadic occurrence
Secular variation
21. In the year 1980, the World Health Organization declared the Philippines, together with some other countries in the Western Pacific Region, “free” of which disease?

Pneumonic plague
Poliomyelitis
Small pox
Anthrax
22. In the census of the Philippines in 1995, there were about 35,299,000 males and about 34,968,000 females. What is the sex ratio?

99.06:100
100.94:100
50.23%
49.76%
23. Primary health care is a total approach to community development. Which of the following is an indicator of success in the use of the primary health care approach?

Health services are provided free of charge to individuals and families.
Local officials are empowered as the major decision makers in matters of health.
Health workers are able to provide care based on identified health needs of the people.
Health programs are sustained according to the level of development of the community.
24. Sputum examination is the major screening tool for pulmonary tuberculosis. Clients would sometimes get false negative results in this exam. This means that the test is not perfect in terms of which characteristic of a diagnostic examination?

Effectiveness
Efficacy
Specificity
Sensitivity
25. Use of appropriate technology requires knowledge of indigenous technology. Which medicinal herb is given for fever, headache and cough?

Sambong
Tsaang gubat
Akapulko
Lagundi
26. What law created the Philippine Institute of Traditional and Alternative Health Care?

R.A. 8423
R.A. 4823
R.A. 2483
R.A. 3482
27. In traditional Chinese medicine, the yielding, negative and feminine force is termed

Yin
Yang
Qi
Chai
28. What is the legal basis for Primary Health Care approach in the Philippines?

Alma Ata Declaration on PHC
Letter of Instruction No. 949
Presidential Decree No. 147
Presidential Decree 996
29. Which of the following demonstrates intersectoral linkages?

Two-way referral system
Team approach
Endorsement done by a midwife to another midwife
Cooperation between the PHN and public school teacher
30. The municipality assigned to you has a population of about 20,000. Estimate the number of 1-4 year old children who will be given Retinol capsule 200,000 I.U. every 6 months.

1,500
1,800
2,000
2,300