1. Estimate the number of pregnant women who will be given tetanus toxoid during an immunization outreach activity in a barangay with a population of about 1,500.

265
300
375
400
2. To describe the sex composition of the population, which demographic tool may be used?

Sex ratio
Sex proportion
Population pyramid
Any of these may be used.
3. Which of the following is a natality rate?

Crude birth rate
Neonatal mortality rate
Infant mortality rate
General fertility rate
4. You are computing the crude death rate of your municipality, with a total population of about 18,000, for last year. There were 94 deaths. Among those who died, 20 died because of diseases of the heart and 32 were aged 50 years or older. What is the crude death rate?

4.2/1,000
5.2/1,000
6.3/1,000
7.3/1,000
5. Knowing that malnutrition is a frequent community health problem, you decided to conduct nutritional assessment. What population is particularly susceptible to protein energy malnutrition (PEM)?

Pregnant women and the elderly
Under-5 year old children
1-4 year old children
School age children
6. Which statistic can give the most accurate reflection of the health status of a community?

1-4 year old age-specific mortality rate
Infant mortality rate
Swaroop’s index
Crude death rate
7. In the past year, Barangay A had an average population of 1655. 46 babies were born in that year, 2 of whom died less than 4 weeks after they were born. There were 4 recorded stillbirths. What is the neonatal mortality rate?

27.8/1,000
43.5/1,000
86.9/1,000
130.4/1,000
8. Which statistic best reflects the nutritional status of a population?

1-4 year old age-specific mortality rate
Proportionate mortality rate
Infant mortality rate
Swaroop’s index
9. What numerator is used in computing general fertility rate?

Estimated midyear population
Number of registered live births
Number of pregnancies in the year
Number of females of reproductive age
10. You will gather data for nutritional assessment of a purok. You will gather information only from families with members who belong to the target population for PEM. What method of data gathering is best for this purpose?

Census
Survey
Record review
Review of civil registry
11. In the conduct of a census, the method of population assignment based on the actual physical location of the people is termed

De jure
De locus
De facto
De novo
12. The Field Health Services and Information System (FHSIS) is the recording and reporting system in public health care in the Philippines. The Monthly Field Health Service Activity Report is a form used in which of the components of the FHSIS?

Tally report
Output report
Target/client list
Individual health record
13. To monitor clients registered in long-term regimens, such as the Multi-Drug Therapy, which component will be most useful?

Tally report
Output report
Target/client list
Individual health record
14. Civil registries are important sources of data. Which law requires registration of births within 30 days from the occurrence of the birth?

P.D. 651
Act 3573
R.A. 3753
R.A. 3375
15. Which of the following professionals can sign the birth certificate?

Public health nurse
Rural health midwife
Municipal health officer
Any of these health professionals
16. Which criterion in priority setting of health problems is used only in community health care?

Modifiability of the problem
Nature of the problem presented
Magnitude of the health problem
Preventive potential of the health problem
17. The Sentrong Sigla Movement has been launched to improve health service delivery. Which of the following is/are true of this movement?

This is a project spearheaded by local government units.
It is a basis for increasing funding from local government units.
It encourages health centers to focus on disease prevention and control.
Its main strategy is certification of health centers able to comply with standards.
18. Which of the following women should be considered as special targets for family planning?

Those who have two children or more
Those with medical conditions such as anemia
Those younger than 20 years and older than 35 years
Those who just had a delivery within the past 15 months
19. Freedom of choice is one of the policies of the Family Planning Program of the Philippines. Which of the following illustrates this principle?

Information dissemination about the need for family planning
Support of research and development in family planning methods
Adequate information for couples regarding the different methods
Encouragement of couples to take family planning as a joint responsibility
20. A woman, 6 months pregnant, came to the center for consultation. Which of the following substances is contraindicated?

Tetanus toxoid
Retinol 200,000 IU
Ferrous sulfate 200 mg
Potassium iodate 200 mg. capsule
21. During prenatal consultation, a client asked you if she can have her delivery at home. After history taking and physical examination, you advised her against a home delivery. Which of the following findings disqualifies her for a home delivery?

Her OB score is G5P3.
She has some palmar pallor.
Her blood pressure is 130/80.
Her baby is in cephalic presentation.
22. Inadequate intake by the pregnant woman of which vitamin may cause neural tube defects?

Niacin
Riboflavin
Folic acid
Thiamine
23. You are in a client’s home to attend to a delivery. Which of the following will you do first?

Set up the sterile area.
Put on a clean gown or apron.
Cleanse the client’s vulva with soap and water.
Note the interval, duration and intensity of labor contractions.
24. In preparing a primigravida for breastfeeding, which of the following will you do?

Tell her that lactation begins within a day after delivery.
Teach her nipple stretching exercises if her nipples are everted.
Instruct her to wash her nipples before and after each breastfeeding.
Explain to her that putting the baby to breast will lessen blood loss after delivery.
25. A primigravida is instructed to offer her breast to the baby for the first time within 30 minutes after delivery. What is the purpose of offering the breast this early?

To initiate the occurrence of milk letdown
To stimulate milk production by the mammary acini
To make sure that the baby is able to get the colostrum
To allow the woman to practice breastfeeding in the presence of the health worker
26. In a mothers’ class, you discuss proper breastfeeding technique. Which is of these is a sign that the baby has “latched on” to the breast properly?

The baby takes shallow, rapid sucks.
The mother does not feel nipple pain.
The baby’s mouth is only partly open.
Only the mother’s nipple is inside the baby’s mouth.
27. You explain to a breastfeeding mother that breast milk is sufficient for all of the baby’s nutrient needs only up to ____.

3 months
6 months
1 year
2 years
28. What is given to a woman within a month after the delivery of a baby?

Malunggay capsule
Ferrous sulfate 100 mg. OD
Retinol 200,000 I.U., 1 capsule
Potassium iodate 200 mg, 1 capsule
29. Which biological used in Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) is stored in the freezer?

DPT
Tetanus toxoid
Measles vaccine
Hepatitis B vaccine
30. Unused BCG should be discarded how many hours after reconstitution?

2
4
6
At the end of the day