1. In immunizing school entrants with BCG, you are not obliged to secure parental consent. This is because of which legal document?

P.D. 996
R.A. 7846
Presidential Proclamation No. 6
Presidential Proclamation No. 46
2. Which immunization produces a permanent scar?

DPT
BCG
Measles vaccination
Hepatitis B vaccination
3. A 4-week old baby was brought to the health center for his first immunization. Which can be given to him?

DPT1
OPV1
Infant BCG
Hepatitis B vaccine 1
4. You will not give DPT 2 if the mother says that the infant had

Seizures a day after DPT 1.
Fever for 3 days after DPT 1.
Abscess formation after DPT 1.
Local tenderness for 3 days after DPT 1.
5. A 2-month old infant was brought to the health center for immunization. During assessment, the infant’s temperature registered at 38.1°C. Which is the best course of action that you will take?

Go on with the infant’s immunizations.
Give Paracetamol and wait for his fever to subside.
Refer the infant to the physician for further assessment.
Advise the infant’s mother to bring him back for immunization when he is well.
6. A pregnant woman had just received her 4th dose of tetanus toxoid. Subsequently, her baby will have protection against tetanus for how long?

1 year
3 years
10 years
Lifetime
7. A 4-month old infant was brought to the health center because of cough. Her respiratory rate is 42/minute. Using the Integrated Management of Child Illness (IMCI) guidelines of assessment, her breathing is considered

Fast
Slow
Normal
Insignificant
8. Which of the following signs will indicate that a young child is suffering from severe pneumonia?

Dyspnea
Wheezing
Fast breathing
Chest indrawing
9. Using IMCI guidelines, you classify a child as having severe pneumonia. What is the best management for the child?

Prescribe an antibiotic.
Refer him urgently to the hospital.
Instruct the mother to increase fluid intake.
Instruct the mother to continue breastfeeding.
10. A 5-month old infant was brought by his mother to the health center because of diarrhea occurring 4 to 5 times a day. His skin goes back slowly after a skin pinch and his eyes are sunken. Using the IMCI guidelines, you will classify this infant in which category?

No signs of dehydration
Some dehydration
Severe dehydration
The data is insufficient.
11. Based on assessment, you classified a 3-month old infant with the chief complaint of diarrhea in the category of SOME DEHYDRATION. Based on IMCI management guidelines, which of the following will you do?

Bring the infant to the nearest facility where IV fluids can be given.
Supervise the mother in giving 200 to 400 ml. of Oresol in 4 hours.
Give the infant’s mother instructions on home management.
Keep the infant in your health center for close observation.
12. A mother is using Oresol in the management of diarrhea of her 3-year old child. She asked you what to do if her child vomits. You will tell her to

Bring the child to the nearest hospital for further assessment.
Bring the child to the health center for intravenous fluid therapy.
Bring the child to the health center for assessment by the physician.
Let the child rest for 10 minutes then continue giving Oresol more slowly.
13. A 1 ½ year old child was classified as having 3rd degree protein energy malnutrition, kwashiorkor. Which of the following signs will be most apparent in this child?

Voracious appetite
Wasting
Apathy
Edema
14. Assessment of a 2-year old child revealed “baggy pants”. Using the IMCI guidelines, how will you manage this child?

Refer the child urgently to a hospital for confinement.
Coordinate with the social worker to enroll the child in a feeding program.
Make a teaching plan for the mother, focusing on menu planning for her child.
Assess and treat the child for health problems like infections and intestinal parasitism.
15. During the physical examination of a young child, what is the earliest sign of xerophthalmia that you may observe?

Keratomalacia
Corneal opacity
Night blindness
Conjunctival xerosis
16. To prevent xerophthalmia, young children are given Retinol capsule every 6 months. What is the dose given to preschoolers?

10,000 IU
20,000 IU
100,000 IU
200,000 IU
17. The major sign of iron deficiency anemia is pallor. What part is best examined for pallor?

Palms
Nailbeds
Around the lips
Lower conjunctival sac
18. Food fortification is one of the strategies to prevent micronutrient deficiency conditions. R.A. 8976 mandates fortification of certain food items. Which of the following is among these food items?

Sugar
Bread
Margarine
Filled milk
19. What is the best course of action when there is a measles epidemic in a nearby municipality?

Give measles vaccine to babies aged 6 to 8 months.
Give babies aged 6 to 11 months one dose of 100,000 I.U. of Retinol
Instruct mothers to keep their babies at home to prevent disease transmission.
Instruct mothers to feed their babies adequately to enhance their babies’ resistance.
20. A mother brought her daughter, 4 years old, to the RHU because of cough and colds. Following the IMCI assessment guide, which of the following is a danger sign that indicates the need for urgent referral to a hospital?

Inability to drink
High grade fever
Signs of severe dehydration
Cough for more than 30 days
21. Management of a child with measles includes the administration of which of the following?

Gentian violet on mouth lesions
Antibiotics to prevent pneumonia
Tetracycline eye ointment for corneal opacity
Retinol capsule regardless of when the last dose was given
22. A mother brought her 10 month old infant for consultation because of fever, which started 4 days prior to consultation. To determine malaria risk, what will you do?

Do a tourniquet test.
Ask where the family resides.
Get a specimen for blood smear.
Ask if the fever is present everyday.
23. The following are strategies implemented by the Department of Health to prevent mosquito-borne diseases. Which of these is most effective in the control of Dengue fever?

Stream seeding with larva-eating fish
Destroying breeding places of mosquitoes
Chemoprophylaxis of non-immune persons going to endemic areas
Teaching people in endemic areas to use chemically treated mosquito nets
24. Secondary prevention for malaria includes

Planting of neem or eucalyptus trees
Residual spraying of insecticides at night
Determining whether a place is endemic or not
Growing larva-eating fish in mosquito breeding places
25. Scotch tape swab is done to check for which intestinal parasite?

Ascaris
Pinworm
Hookworm
Schistosoma
26. Which of the following signs indicates the need for sputum examination for AFB?

Hematemesis
Fever for 1 week
Cough for 3 weeks
Chest pain for 1 week
27. Which clients are considered targets for DOTS Category I?

Sputum negative cavitary cases
Clients returning after a default
Relapses and failures of previous PTB treatment regimens
Clients diagnosed for the first time through a positive sputum exam
28. To improve compliance to treatment, what innovation is being implemented in DOTS?

Having the health worker follow up the client at home
Having the health worker or a responsible family member monitor drug intake
Having the patient come to the health center every month to get his medications
Having a target list to check on whether the patient has collected his monthly supply of drugs
29. Diagnosis of leprosy is highly dependent on recognition of symptoms. Which of the following is an early sign of leprosy?

Macular lesions
Inability to close eyelids
Thickened painful nerves
Sinking of the nosebridge
30. Which of the following clients should be classified as a case of multibacillary leprosy?

3 skin lesions, negative slit skin smear
3 skin lesions, positive slit skin smear
5 skin lesions, negative slit skin smear
5 skin lesions, positive slit skin smear