(A) that extended their anal sphincter. Third degree laceration involves all in the second degree laceration and the external sphincter of the rectum. Options B, C and D are under the second degree laceration.
(C) I will have to remain in bed until my due date comes. Placenta previa means that the placenta is the presenting part. On the first and second trimester there is spotting. On the third trimester there is bleeding that is sudden, profuse and painless.
(D) 18th week of pregnancy. On the 8th week of pregnancy, the uterus is still within the pelvic area. On the 10th week, the uterus is still within the pelvic area. On the 12th week, the uterus and placenta have grown, expanding into the abdominal cavity. On the 18th week, the uterus has already risen out of the pelvis and is expanding into the abdominal area.
(A) frequency. Pressure and irritation of the bladder by the growing uterus during the first trimester is responsible for causing urinary frequency. Dysuria, incontinence and burning are symptoms associated with urinary tract infection.
(B) 25-35 lbs. A weight gain of 11. 2 to 15.9 kg (25 to 35 lbs) is currently recommended as an average weight gain in pregnancy. This weight gain consists of the following: fetus- 7.5 lb; placenta- 1.5 lb; amniotic fluid- 2 lb; uterus- 2.5 lb; breasts- 1.5 to 3 lb; blood volume- 4 lb; body fat- 7 lb; body fluid- 7 lb.
(B) Modify preoperative teaching to meet the needs of either a planned or emergency cesarean birth. A key point to consider when preparing the client for a cesarean delivery is to modify the preoperative teaching to meet the needs of either planned or emergency cesarean birth, the depth and breadth of instruction will depend on circumstances and time available.
(D) convulsions. Options A, B and C are findings of severe preeclampsia. Convulsions is a finding of eclampsia—an obstetrical emergency.
(C) Should be restricted because it may stimulate uterine activity.. Coitus is restricted when there is watery discharge, uterine contraction and vaginal bleeding. Also those women with a history of spontaneous miscarriage may be advised to avoid coitus during the time of pregnancy when a previous miscarriage occurred.
(D) assume Sim’s position. When the woman is in Sim’s position, this puts the weight of the fetus on bed, not on the woman and allows good circulation in the lower extremities.
(A) The anterior is large in shape when compared to the posterior fontanel.. The anterior fontanel is larger in size than the posterior fontanel. Additionally, the anterior fontanel, which is diamond shaped closes at 18 month, whereas the posterior fontanel, which is triangular in shape closes at 8 to 12 weeks. Neither fontanel should appear bulging, which may indicate increases ICP or sunken, which may indicate hydration.
(A) 13 -14 lbs. The birth weight of an infant is doubled at 6 months and is tripled at 12 months.
(B) To promote uterine contraction. Oxytocin is a hormone produced by the pituitary gland that produces intermittent uterine contractions, helping to promote uterine involution.
(B) 100 beats per minute. The normal heart rate for a newborn that is sleeping is approximately 100 beats per minute. If the newborn was awake, the normal heart rate would range from 120 to 160 beats per minute.
(D) Trust vs. Mistrust. The child with Down syndrome will go through the same first stage, trust vs. mistrust, only at a slow rate. Therefore, the nurse should concentrate on developing on bond between the primary caregiver and the child.
(A) Irreversible brain damage. The child with PKU must maintain a strict low phenylalanine diet to prevent central nervous system damage, seizures and eventual death.
(B) Preschool. During preschool, this is the time when children do imitative play, imaginative play—the occurrence of imaginative playmates, dramatic play where children like to act, dance and sing.
(D) Saying “mama” or “dada” for the first time at 18 months of age.. A child should say “mama” or “dada” during 10 to 12 months of age. Options A, B and C are all normal assessments of language development of a child.
(C) Ignore her behavior as long as she does not hurt herself and others.. If a child is trying to get attention or trying to get something through tantrums—ignore his/her behavior.
(B) 4 inches. From birth to 6 months, the infant grows 1 inch (2.5 cm) per month. From 6 to 12 months, the infant grows ½ inch (1.25 cm) per month.
(D) Status Asthmaticus. Status asthmaticus leads to respiratory distress and bronchospasm despite of treatment and interventions. Mechanical ventilation maybe needed due to respiratory failure.
(D) Abdominal mass and weakness. Nephroblastoma or Wilm’s tumor is caused by chromosomal abnormalities, most common kidney cancer among children characterized by abdominal mass, hematuria, hypertension and fever.
(A) blurred vision. Danger signs that require prompt reporting are leaking of amniotic fluid, blurred vision, vaginal bleeding, rapid weight gain and elevated blood pressure. Nasal stuffiness, breast tenderness, and constipation are common discomforts associated with pregnancy.
(B) irritability, purulent drainage in middle ear, nasal congestion and cough. Irritability, purulent drainage in middle ear, nasal congestion and cough, fever, loss of appetite, vomiting and diarrhea are clinical manifestations of otitis media. Acute otitis media is common in children 6 months to 3 years old and 8 years old and above. Breast fed infants have higher resistance due to protection of Eustachian tubes and middle ear from breast milk.
(D) Kangaroo care. Kangaroo care is the use of skin-to-skin contact to maintain body heat. This method of care not only supplies heat but also encourages parent-child interaction.
(B) Use of a high-SPF sunblock. Without melanin production, the child with albinism is at risk for severe sunburns. Maximum sun protection should be taken, including use of hats, long sleeves, minimal time in the sun and high-SPF sunblock, to prevent any problems.