1. The nurse is going to replace the Pleur-O-Vac attached to the client with a small, persistent left upper lobe pneumothorax with a Heimlich Flutter Valve. Which of the following is the best rationale for this?

Promote air and pleural drainage
Prevent kinking of the tube
Eliminate the need for a dressing
Eliminate the need for a water-seal drainage
2. The client with acute pancreatitis and fluid volume deficit is transferred from the ward to the ICU. Which of the following will alert the nurse?

Decreased pain in the fetal position
Urine output of 35mL/hr
CVP of 12 mmHg
Cardiac output of 5L/min
3. The nurse in the morning shift is making rounds in the ward. The nurse enters the client’s room and found the client in discomfort condition. The client complains of stiffness in the joints. To reduce the early morning stiffness of the joints of the client,the nurse can encourage the client to:

Sleep with a hot pad
Take to aspirins before arising, and wait 15 minutes before attempting locomotion
Take a hot tub bath or shower in the morning
Put joints through passive ROM before trying to move them actively
4. The nurse is planning of care to a client with peptic ulcer disease. To avoid the worsening condition of the client, the nurse should carefully plan the diet of the client. Which of the following will be included in the diet regime of the client?

Eating mainly bland food and milk or dairy products
Reducing intake of high-fiber foods
Eating small, frequent meals and a bedtime snack
Eliminating intake of alcohol and coffee
5. The physician has given instruction to the nurse that the client can be ambulated on crutches, with no weight bearing on the affected limb. The nurse is aware that the appropriate crutch gait for the nurse to teach the client would be:

Tripod gait
Two-point gait
Four-point gait
Three-point gait
6. The client is transferred to the nursing care unit from the operating room after a transurethral resection of the prostate. The client is complaining of pain in the abdomen area. The nurse suspects of bladder spasms, which of the following is the best nursing action to minimize the pain felt by the client?

Advising the client not to urinate around catheter
Intermittent catheter irrigation with saline
Giving prescribed narcotics every 4 hour
Repositioning catheter to relieve pressure
7. A client is diagnosed with peptic ulcer. The nurse caring for the client expects the physician to order which diet?

NPO
Small feedings of bland food
A regular diet given frequently in small amounts
Frequent feedings of clear liquids
8. The nurse is going to insert a Miller-Abbott tube to the client. Before insertion of the tube, the balloon is tested for patency and capacity and then deflated. Which of the following nursing measure will ease the insertion to the tube?

Positioning the client in Semi-Fowler’s position
Administering a sedative to reduce anxiety
Chilling the tube before insertion
Warming the tube before insertion
9. The physician ordered a low-sodium diet to the client. Which of the following food will the nurse avoid to give to the client?

Orange juice.
Whole milk.
Ginger ale.
Black coffee.
10. Mr. Bean, a 70-year-old client is admitted in the hospital for almost one month. The nurse understands that prolonged immobilization could lead to decubitus ulcers. Which of the following would be the least appropriate nursing intervention in the prevention of decubitus?

Giving backrubs with alcohol
Use of a bed cradle
Frequent assessment of the skin
Encouraging a high-protein diet
11. The physician prescribed digoxin 0.125 mg PO qd to a client and instructed the nurse that the client is on high-potassium diet. High potassium foods are recommended in the diet of a client taking digitalis preparations because a low serum potassium has which of the following effects?

Potentiates the action of digoxin
Promotes calcium retention
Promotes sodium excretion
Puts the client at risk for digitalis toxicity
12. The nurse is caring for a client who is transferred from the operating room for pneumonectomy. The nurse knows that immediately following pneumonectomy; the client should be in what position?

Supine on the unaffected side
Low-Fowler’s on the back
Semi-Fowler’s on the affected side
Semi-Fowler’s on the unaffected side
13. A client is placed on digoxin, high potassium foods are recommended in the diet of the client. Which of the following foods willthe nurse give to the client?

Whole grain cereal, orange juice, and apricots
Turkey, green bean, and Italian bread
Cottage cheese, cooked broccoli, and roast beef
Fish, green beans and cherry pie
14. The nurse is assigned to care to a client who undergone thyroidectomy. What nursing intervention is important during the immediate postoperative period following a thyroidectomy?

Assess extremities for weakness and flaccidity
Support the head and neck during position changes
Position the client in high Fowler’s
Medicate for restlessness and anxiety
15. What would be the recommended diet the nurse will implement to a client with burns of the head, face, neck and anterior chest?

Serve a high-protein, high-carbohydrate diet
Encourage full liquid diet
Serve a high-fat diet, high-fiber diet
Monitor intake to prevent weight gain
16. A client with multiple fractures of both lower extremities is admitted for 3 days ago and is on skeletal traction. The client is complaining of having difficulty in bowel movement. Which of the following would be the most appropriate nursing intervention?

Administer an enema
Perform range-of-motion exercise to all extremities
Ensure maximum fluid intake (3000ml/day)
Put the client on the bedpan every 2 hours
17. John is diagnosed with Addison’s disease and admitted in the hospital. What would be the appropriate nursing care for John?

Reducing physical and emotional stress
Providing a low-sodium diet
Restricting fluids to 1500ml/day
Administering insulin-replacement therapy
18. Mr. Smith is scheduled for an above-the-knee amputation. After the surgery he was transferred to the nursing care unit. The nurse assigned to him knows that 72 hours after the procedure the client should be positioned properly to prevent contractures. Which of the following is the best position to the client?

Side-lying, alternating left and right sides
Sitting in a reclining chair twice a day
Lying on abdomen several times daily
Supine with stump elevated at least 30 degrees
19. A client is scheduled to have an inguinal herniorraphy in the outpatient surgical department. The nurse is providing health teaching about post surgical care to the client. Which of the following statement if made by the client would reflect the need for more teaching?

“I should call the physician if I have a cough or cold before surgery”
“I will be able to drive soon after surgery”
“I will not be able to do any heavy lifting for 3-6 weeks after surgery”
“I should support my incision if I have to cough or turn”
20. Ms Jones is brought to the emergency room and is complaining of muscle spasms, numbness, tremors and weakness in the arms and legs. The client was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. The nurse assigned to Ms. Jones is aware that she has to prevent fatigue to the client to alleviate the discomfort. Which of the following teaching is necessary to prevent fatigue?

Avoid extremes in temperature
Install safety devices in the home
Attend support group meetings
Avoid physical exercise
21. Mr. Stewart is in sickle cell crisis and complaining pain in the joints and difficulty of breathing. On the assessment of the nurse, his temperature is 38.1 ºC. The physician ordered Morphine sulfate via patient-controlled analgesia (PCA), and oxygen at 4L/min. A priority nursing diagnosis to Mr. Stewart is risk for infection. A nursing intervention to assist in preventing infection is:

Using standard precautions and medical asepsis
Enforcing a “no visitors” rule
Using moist heat on painful joints
Monitoring a vital signs every 2 hour
22. Mrs. Maupin is a professor in a prestigious university for 30 years. After lecture, she experience blurring of vision and tiredness. Mrs. Maupin is brought to the emergency department. On assessment, the nurse notes that the blood pressure of the client is 139/90. Mrs. Maupin has been diagnosed with essential hypertension and placed on medication to control her BP. Which potential nursing diagnosis will be a priority for discharge teaching?

Sleep Pattern disturbance
Impaired physical mobility
Noncompliance
Fluid volume excess
23. Following a needle biopsy of the kidney, which assessment is an indication that the client is bleeding?

Slow, irregular pulse
Dull, abdominal discomfort
Urinary frequency
Throbbing headache
24. A client with acute bronchitis is admitted in the hospital. The nurse assigned to the client is making a plan of care regarding expectoration of thick sputum. Which nursing action is most effective?

Place the client in a lateral position every 2 hour
Splint the patient’s chest with pillows when coughing
Use humified oxygen
Offer fluids at regular intervals
25. The nurse is going to assess the bowel sound of the client. For accurate assessment of the bowel sound, the nurse should listen for at least:

5 minutes
60 seconds
30 seconds
2 minutes
26. The nurse encourages the client to wear compression stockings. What is the rationale behind in using compression stockings?

Compression stockings promote venous return
Compression stockings divert blood to major vessels
Compression stockings decreases workload on the heart
Compression stockings improve arterial circulation
27. Mr. Whitman is a stroke client and is having difficulty in swallowing. Which is the best nursing intervention is most likely to assist the client?

Placing food in the unaffected side of the mouth
Increasing fiber in the diet
Asking the patient to speak slowly
Increasing fluid intake
28. Following nephrectomy, the nurse closely monitors the urinary output of the client. Which assessment finding is an early indicator of fluid retention in the postoperative period?

Periorbital edema
Increased specific gravity of urine
A urinary output of 50mL/hr
Daily weight gain of 2 lb or more
29. A nurse is completing an assessment to a client with cirrhosis. Which of the following nursing assessment is important to notify the physician?

Expanding ecchymosis
Ascites and serum albumin of 3.2 g/dl
Slurred speech
Hematocrit of 37% and hemoglobin of 12g/dl
30. Mr. Park is 32-year-old, a badminton player and has a type 1 diabetes mellitus. After the game, the client complains of becoming diaphoretic and light-headedness. The client asks the nurse how to avoid this reaction. The nurse will recommend to:

Allow plenty of time after the insulin injection and before beginning the match
Eat a carbohydrate snack before and during the badminton match
Drink plenty of fluids before, during, and after bed time
Take insulin just before starting the badminton match
31. A client is rushed to the emergency room due to serious vehicle accident. The nurse is suspecting of head injury. Which of the following assessment findings would the nurse report to the physician?

CVP of 5mmHa
Glasgow Coma Scale score of 13
Polyuria and dilute urinary output
Insomnia
32. Mrs. Moore, 62-year-old, with diabetes is in the emergency department. She stepped on a sharp sea shells while walking barefoot along the beach. Mrs. Moore did not notice that the object pierced the skin until later that evening. What problem does the client most probably have?

Nephropathy
Macroangiopathy
Carpal tunnel syndrome
Peripheral neuropathy
33. A client with gangrenous foot has undergone a below-knee amputation. The nurse in the nursing care unit knows that the priority nursing intervention in the immediate post operative care of this client is:

Elevate the stump on a pillow for the first 24 hours
Encourage use of trapeze
Position the client prone periodically
Apply a cone-shaped dressing
34. A client with a diagnosis of gastric ulcer is complaining of syncope and vertigo. What would be the initial nursing intervention by the nurse?

Monitor the client’s vital signs
Keep the client on bed rest
Keep the patient on bed rest
Give a stat dose of Sucralfate (Carafate)
35. After a right lower lobectomy on a 55-year-old client, which action should the nurse initiate when the client is transferred from the post anesthesia care unit?

Notify the family to report the client’s condition
Immediately administer the narcotic as ordered
Keep client on right side supported by pillows
Encourage coughing and deep breathing every 2 hours
36. The nurse is providing a discharge instruction about the prevention of urinary stasis to a client with frequent bladder infection. Which of the following will the nurse include in the instruction?

Drink 3-4 quarts of fluid every day
Empty the bladder every 2-4 hours while awake
Encourage the use of coffee, tea, and colas for their diuretic effect
Teach Kegel exercises to control bladder flow
37. A male client visits the clinic for check-up. The client tells the nurse that there is a yellow discharge from his penis. He also experiences a burning sensation when urinating. The nurse is suspecting of gonorrhea. What teaching is necessary for this client?

Sex partner of 3 months ago must be treated
Women with gonorrhea are symptomatic
Use a condom for sexual activity
Sex partner needs to be evaluated
38. A client with AIDS is admitted in the hospital. He is receiving intravenous therapy. While the nurse is assessing the IV site, the client becomes confused and restless and the intravenous catheter becomes disconnected and minimal amount of the client’s blood spills onto the floor. Which action will the nurse take to remove the blood spill?

Promptly clean with a 1:10 solution of household bleach and water
Promptly clean up the blood spill with full-strength antimicrobial cleaning solution
Immediately mop the floor with boiling water
Allow the blood to dry before cleaning to decrease the possibility of cross-contamination
39. Before surgery, the physician ordered pentobarbital sodium (Nembutal) for the client to sleep. The night before the scheduled surgery, the nurse gave the pre-medication. One hour later the client is still unable to sleep. The nurse review the client’s chart and note the physician’s prescription with an order to repeat. What should the nurse do next?

Rub the client’s back until relaxed
Prepare a glass of warm milk
Give the second dose of pentobarbital sodium
Explore the client’s feelings about surgery
40. The nurse on the night shift is making rounds in the nursing care unit. The nurse is about to enter to the client’s room when a ventilator alarm sounds, what is the first action the nurse should do?

Assess the lung sounds
Suction the client right away
Look at the client
Turn and position the client
41. What effective precautions should the nurse use to control the transmission of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)?

Use gloves and handwashing before and after client contact
Do nasal cultures on healthcare providers
Place the client on total isolation
Use mask and gown during care of the MRSA client
42. The postoperative gastrectomy client is scheduled for discharge. The client asks the nurse, “When I will be allowed to eat three meals a day like the rest of my family?”. The appropriate nursing response is:

“You will probably have to eat six meals a day for the rest of your life.”
“Eating six meals a day can be a bother, can’t it?”
“Some clients can tolerate three meals a day by the time they leave the hospital. Maybe it will be a little longer for you.”
“ It varies from client to client, but generally in 6-12 months most clients can return to their previous meal patterns”
43. A male client with cirrhosis is complaining of belly pain, itchiness and his breasts are getting larger and also the abdomen. The client is so upset because of the discomfort and asks the nurse why his breast and abdomen are getting larger. Which of the following is the appropriate nursing response?

“How much of a difference have you noticed”
“It’s part of the swelling your body is experiencing”
“It’s probably because you have been less physically active”
“Your liver is not destroying estrogen hormones that all men produce”
44. A client is diagnosed with detached retina and scheduled for surgery. Preoperative teaching of the nurse to the client includes:

No eye pain is expected postoperatively
Semi-fowler’s position will be used to reduce pressure in the eye.
Eye patches may be used postoperatively
Return of normal vision is expected following surgery
45. A 70-year-old client is brought to the emergency department with a caregiver. The client has manifestations of anorexia, wasting of muscles and multiple bruises. What nursing interventions would the nurse implement?

Talk to the client about the caregiver and support system
Complete a gastrointestinal and neurological assessment
Check the lab data for serum albumin, hematocrit and hemoglobin
Complete a police report on elder abuse
46. A nurse is providing a discharge instruction to the client about the self-catheterization at home. Which of the following instructions would the nurse include?

Wash the catheter with soap and water after each use
Lubricate the catheter with Vaseline
Perform the Valsalva maneuver to promote insertion
Replace the catheter with a new one every 24 hour
47. The nurse in the nursing care unit is assigned to care to a client who is Immunocompromised. The client tells the nurse that his chest is painful and the blisters are itchy. What would be the nursing intervention to this client?

Call the physician
Give a prn pain medication
Clarify if the client is on a new medication
Use gown and gloves while assessing the lesions
48. A client is admitted and has been diagnosed with bacterial (meningococcal) meningitis. The infection control registered nurse visits the staff nurse caring to the client. What statement made by the nurse reflects an understanding of the management of this client?

speech pattern may be altered
Respiratory isolation is necessary for 24 hours after antibiotics are started
Perform skin culture on the macular popular rash
Expect abnormal general muscle contractions
49. A 18-year-old male client had sustained a head injury from a motorbike accident. It is uncertain whether the client may have minimal but permanent disability. The family is concerned regarding the client’s difficulty accepting the possibility of long term effects. Which nursing diagnosis is best for this situation?

Nutrition, less than body requirements
Injury, potential for sensory-perceptual alterations
Impaired mobility, related to muscle weakness
Anticipatory grieving, due to the loss of independence
50. A client with AIDS is scheduled for discharge. The client tells the nurse that one of his hobbies at home is gardening. What will be the discharge instruction of the nurse to the client knowing that the client is prone to toxoplasmosis?

Wash all vegetables before cooking
Wear gloves when gardening
Wear a mask when travelling to foreign countries
Avoid contact with cats and birds