Answer: (D) The actions of a reasonably prudent nurse with similar education and experience. The standard of care is determined by the average degree of skill, care, and diligence by nurses in similar circumstances.
Answer: (B) I.M. With a platelet count of 22,000/μl, the clients tends to bleed easily. Therefore, the nurse should avoid using the I.M. route because the area is a highly vascular and can bleed readily when penetrated by a needle. The bleeding can be difficult to stop.
Answer: (C) “Digoxin 0.125 mg P.O. once daily” The nurse should always place a zero before a decimal point so that no one misreads the figure, which could result in a dosage error. The nurse   should never insert a zero at the end of a dosage that includes a decimal point because this could be misread, possibly leading to a tenfold increase in the dosage.
Answer: (A) Ineffective peripheral tissue perfusion related to venous congestion. Ineffective peripheral tissue perfusion related to venous congestion takes the highest priority because venous inflammation and clot formation  impede blood flow in a client with deep vein thrombosis.
Answer: (B) A 44 year-old myocardial infarction (MI) client who is complaining of nausea. Nausea is a symptom of impending myocardial infarction (MI) and should be assessed immediately so that treatment can be instituted and further damage to the heart is avoided.
Answer: (C) Check circulation every 15-30 minutes. Restraints encircle the limbs, which place the client at risk for circulation being restricted to the distal areas of the extremities. Checking the client’s circulation every 15-30 minutes will allow the nurse to adjust the restraints before injury from decreased blood flow occurs.
Answer: (A) Prevent stress ulcer. Curling’s ulcer occurs as a generalized stress response in burn patients. This results in a decreased production of mucus and increased secretion of gastric acid. The best treatment for this prophylactic use of antacids and H2 receptor blockers.
Answer: (D) Continue to monitor and record hourly urine output. Normal urine output for an adult is approximately 1 ml/minute (60 ml/hour). Therefore, this client’s output is normal. Beyond continued evaluation, no nursing action is warranted.
Answer: (A) “My ankle looks less swollen now”. Ice application decreases pain and swelling. Continued or increased pain, redness, and increased warmth are signs of inflammation that shouldn’t occur after ice application
Answer: (B) Hyperkalemia. A loop diuretic removes water and, along with it, sodium and potassium. This may result in hypokalemia, hypovolemia, and hyponatremia.
Answer:(A) Have condescending trust and confidence in their subordinates. Benevolent-authoritative managers pretentiously show their trust and confidence to their followers.
Answer: (A) Provides continuous, coordinated and comprehensive nursing services. Functional nursing is focused on tasks and activities and not on the care of the patients.
Answer: (B) Standard written order. This is a standard written order. Prescribers write a single order for medications given only once. A stat order is written for medications given immediately for an urgent client problem. A standing order, also known as a protocol, establishes guidelines for treating a particular disease or set of symptoms in special care areas such as the coronary care unit. Facilities also may institute medication protocols that specifically designate drugs that a nurse may not give.
Answer: (D) Liquid or semi-liquid stools. Passage of liquid or semi-liquid stools results from seepage of unformed bowel contents around the impacted stool in the rectum. Clients with fecal impaction don’t pass hard, brown, formed stools because the feces can’t move past the impaction. These clients typically report the urge to defecate (although they can’t pass stool) and a decreased appetite.
Answer: (C) Pulling the helix up and back. To perform an otoscopic examination on an adult, the nurse grasps the helix of the ear and pulls it up and back to straighten the ear canal. For a child, the nurse grasps the helix and pulls it down to straighten the ear canal. Pulling the lobule in any direction wouldn’t straighten the ear canal for visualization.
Answer: (A) Protect the irritated skin from sunlight. Irradiated skin is very sensitive and must be protected with clothing or sunblock. The priority approach is the avoidance of strong sunlight.
Answer: (C) Assist the client in removing dentures and nail polish. Dentures, hairpins, and combs must be removed. Nail polish must be removed so that cyanosis can be easily monitored by observing the nail beds.
Answer: (D) Sudden onset of continuous epigastric and back pain. The autodigestion of tissue by the pancreatic enzymes results in pain from inflammation, edema, and possible hemorrhage. Continuous, unrelieved epigastric or back pain reflects the inflammatory process in the pancreas.
Answer: (B) Provide high-protein, high-carbohydrate diet. A positive nitrogen balance is important for meeting metabolic needs, tissue repair, and resistance to infection. Caloric goals may be as high as 5000 calories per day.
Answer: (A) Blood pressure and pulse rate. The baseline must be established to recognize the signs of an anaphylactic or hemolytic reaction to the transfusion.