(C) Respiratory rate greater than 20 breaths per minute. A respiratory rate of greater than 20 breaths per minute is tachypnea. A blood pressure of 140/90 is considered hypertension. Pulse greater than 100 beats per minute is tachycardia. Frequent bowel sounds refer to hyper-active bowel sounds.
(A) Wheezes. Wheezes are indicated by continuous, lengthy, musical; heard during inspiration or expiration. Rhonchi are usually coarse breath sounds. Gurgles are loud gurgling, bubbling sound. Vesicular breath sounds are low pitch, soft intensity on expiration. 
(B) 37.95 degrees C. To convert °F to °C use this formula, ( °F – 32 ) (0.55). While when converting °C to °F use this formula, ( °C x 1.8) + 32. Note that 0.55 is 5/9 and 1.8 is 9/5.
(D) Trial and error. The trial and error method of problem solving isn’t systematic (as in the scientific method of problem solving) routine, or based on inner prompting (as in the intuitive method of problem solving).
(C) Assessing, diagnosing, planning, implementing, evaluating. The correct order of the nursing process is assessing, diagnosing, planning, implementing, evaluating.
(C) Nursing care plan. The outcome, or the product of the planning phase of the nursing process is a Nursing care plan.
(C) Client verbalized, “I feel pain when urinating.”. Subjective data are those that can be described only by the person experiencing it. Therefore, only the patient can describe or verify whether he is experiencing pain or not.
(C) “The patient will identify all the high-salt food from a prepared list by discharge.”. Expected outcomes are specific, measurable, realistic statements of goal attainment. The phrases “right amount”, “less nauseated” and “enough sleep” are vague and not measurable.
(C) She signs on the medication sheet after administering the medication.A nurse should record a nursing intervention (ex. Giving medications) after performing the nursing intervention (not before). Recording should also be done using a pen, be complete, and signed with the nurse’s full name and title.
(C) Concern for privacy. A patient’s privacy may be violated if security measures aren’t used properly or if policies and procedures aren’t in place that determines what type of information can be retrieved, by whom, and for what purpose.
(B) Sister Callista Roy. Sister Roy’s theory is called the adaptation theory and she viewed each person as a unified biophysical system in constant interaction with a changing environment. Orem’s theory is called self-care deficit theory and is based on the belief that individual has a need for self-care actions. King’s theory is the Goal attainment theory and described nursing as a helping profession that assists individuals and groups in society to attain, maintain, and restore health. Henderson introduced the nature of nursing model and identified the 14 basic needs.
(B) Nurse and patient. Although diagnosing is basically the nurse’s responsibility, input from the patient is essential to formulate the correct nursing diagnosis.
(C) Health belief. Health belief of an individual influences his/her preventive health behavior.
(D) Decreased urine output. Adreno-cortical response involves release of aldosterone that leads to retention of sodium and water. This results to decreased urine output.
(D) Aspirate urine from the tubing port using a sterile syringe. The nurse should aspirate the urine from the port using a sterile syringe to obtain a urine specimen. Opening a closed drainage system increase the risk of urinary tract infection.
(A) Stop the infusion. The sign and symptoms indicate extravasation so the IVF should be stopped immediately and put warm not cold towel on the affected site.
(B) After few minutes, return to that patient’s room and do not leave until the patient takes the medication. This is to verify or to make sure that the medication was taken by the patient as directed.
(A) Place the feeding 20 inches above the pint if insertion of NGT. The height of the feeding is above 12 inches above the point of insertion, bot 20 inches. If the height of feeding is too high, this results to very rapid introduction of feeding. This may trigger nausea and vomiting.
(D) Educator. When teaching a patient about medications before discharge, the nurse is acting as an educator. A caregiver provides direct care to the patient. The nurse acts as s patient advocate when making the patient’s wishes known to the doctor.
(C) Capillary refill greater than 3 seconds and buccal cyanosis. Capillary refill greater than 3 seconds and buccal cyanosis indicate decreased oxygen to the tissues which requires immediate attention/intervention. Oriented to date, time and place, hemoglobin of 13 g/dl are normal data.
(C) Patient’s NGT was removed 2 hours ago. The change-of-shift report should indicate significant recent changes in the patient’s condition that the nurse assuming responsibility for care of the patient will need to monitor. The other options are not critical enough to include in the report.
(A) “The patient will experience decreased frequency of bowel elimination.” The goal is the opposite, healthy response of the problem statement of the nursing diagnosis. In this situation, the problem statement is diarrhea.
(C) Making of individualized patient care. To be effective, the nursing care plan developed in the planning phase of the nursing process must reflect the individualized needs of the patient.
(A) Ineffective breathing pattern related to pain, as evidenced by shortness of breath.. Physiologic needs (ex. Oxygen, fluids, nutrition) must be met before lower needs (such as safety and security, love and belongingness, self-esteem and self-actualization) can be met. Therefore, physiologic needs have the highest priority.
(D) 0 degree. The patient should be positioned with the head of the bed completely flattened to perform an abdominal examination. If the head of the bed is elevated, the abdominal muscles and organs can be bunched up, altering the findings.
(D) Bluish fingernails, cool and pale fingers. A safety device on the wrist may impair blood circulation. Therefore, the nurse should assess the patient for signs of impaired circulation such as bluish fingernails, cool and pale fingers. Palpable radial and ulnar pulses, capillary refill within 3 seconds are all normal findings.
(B) sardines. The normal serum sodium level is 135 to 145 mEq/L, the client is having hypernatremia. Pia should avoid food high in sodium like processed food. Broccoli, cabbage and tomatoes are good source of Vitamin C.
(A) objective data from a secondary source. Jason is the primary source; his mother is a secondary source. The data is objective because it can be perceived by the senses, verified by another person observing the same patient, and tested against accepted standards or norms.
(A) Hypethermia. Hyperthermia is a NANDA-approved nursing diagnosis. Diabetes Mellitus, Angina and Chronic Renal Failure are medical diagnoses.
(D) goal-oriented. The nursing process is goal-oriented. It is also systematic, patient-centered, and dynamic.
(B) vesicle. Vesicle is a circumscribed circulation containing serous fluid or blood and less than 1 cm (ex. Blister, chicken pox).
(B) Instill the medication directly into the tympanic membrane. During the application of medication it is inappropriate to instill the medication directly into the tympanic membrane. The right thing to do is instill the medication along the lateral wall of the auditory canal.
(B) Provide opportunity to the client to tell their story. Providing a grieving person an opportunity to tell their story allows the person to express feelings. This is therapeutic in assisting the client resolve grief.
(C) algor mortis. Algor mortis is the decrease of the body’s temperature after death. Livor mortis is the discoloration of the skin after death. Rigor mortis is the stiffening of the body that occurs about 2-4 hours after death.
(D) lung. Resonance is loud, low-pitched and long duration that’s heard most commonly over an air-filled tissue such as a normal lung.
(D) 7th CN (Facial). Bells’ palsy is the paralysis of the motor component of the 7th caranial nerve, resulting in facial sag, inability to close the eyelid or the mouth, drooling, flat nasolabial fold and loss of taste on the affected side of the face.
(C) megaloblastic anemia. Prolonged Vitamin B9 deficiency will lead to megaloblastic anemia while pernicious anemia results in deficiency in Vitamin B12. Prolonged deficiency of Vitamin C leads to scurvy and Pellagra results in deficiency in Vitamin B3.
(B) Decreased sensory functions. Decreased in sensory functions could cause a geriatric patient to have difficulty retaining knowledge about the newly prescribed medications. Absence of family support and no interest on learning may affect compliance, not knowledge retention. Decreased plasma levels do not alter patient’s knowledge about the drug.
(A) Independent. Independent nursing interventions involve actions that nurses initiate based on their own knowledge and skills without the direction or supervision of another member of the health care team.
(B) 6 months. Chronic pain s usually defined as pain lasting longer than 6 months.
(C) It focuses on the patient, not the nurse. The nursing process is patient-centered, not nurse-centered. It can be use in any setting, and the steps are related. The nursing process can’t solve all patient health problems.
(B) Diminished breath sounds in patient with previously normal breath sounds. Diminished breath sound is a life threatening problem therefore it is highly priority because they pose the greatest threat to the patient’s well-being.
(C) 3-day diet recall. 3-day diet recall is an example of dietary history. This is used to indicate the adequacy of food intake of the client.
(B) teacher. The nurse will assume the role of a teacher in this therapeutic relationship. The other roles are inappropriate in this situation.
(C) Elevate the head of the bed. Elevating the head of the bed during an enteral feeding prevents aspiration. The patient may be placed on the right side to prevent aspiration. Enteral feedings are given at room temperature to lessen GI distress. The enteral tubing should be changed every 24 hours to limit microbial growth.
(D) Increased rate and depth of respiration. Kussmaul breathing is also called as hyperventilation. Seen in metabolic acidosis and renal failure. Option A refers to Biot’s breathing. Option B is apneustic breathing and option C is the Cheyne-stokes breathing.
(C) denial. The client is in denial stage because she is unready to face the reality that loss is happening and she assumes artificial cheerfulness.
(A) Primary. The primary level focuses on health promotion. Secondary level focuses on health maintenance. Tertiary focuses on rehabilitation. There is n Curative level of preventive health care problems.
(D) Patient stated, “My arms still hurt.”. Subjective data are apparent only to the person affected and can or verified only by that person.
(C) Thyroid. The thyroid is part of the endocrine system. Heart, sinus and thymus are not.