Answer: (D) Immobilize the leg before moving the client. If the nurse suspects a fracture, splinting the area before moving the client is imperative. The nurse should call for emergency help if the client is not hospitalized and call for a physician for the hospitalized client.
Answer: (B) Admit the client into a private room. The client who has a radiation implant is placed in a private room and has a limited number of visitors. This reduces the exposure of others to the radiation.
Answer: (C) Risk for infection. Agranulocytosis is characterized by a reduced number of leukocytes (leucopenia) and neutrophils (neutropenia) in the blood. The client is at high risk for infection because of the decreased body defenses against microorganisms. Deficient knowledge related to the nature of the disorder may be appropriate diagnosis but is not the priority.
Answer: (B) Place the client on the left side in the Trendelenburg position. Lying on the left side may prevent air from flowing into the pulmonary veins. The Trendelenburg position increases intrathoracic pressure, which decreases the amount of blood pulled into the vena cava during aspiration.
Answer: (A) Autocratic. The autocratic style of leadership is a task-oriented and directive.
Answer: (D) 2.5 cc. 2.5 cc is to be added, because only a 500 cc bag of solution is being medicated instead of a 1 liter.
Answer: (A) 50 cc/ hour. A rate of 50 cc/hr. The child is to receive 400 cc over a period of 8 hours = 50 cc/hr.
Answer: (B) Assess the client for presence of pain. Assessing the client for pain is a very important measure. Postoperative pain is an indication of complication. The nurse should also assess the client for pain to provide for the client’s comfort.
Answer: (A) BP – 80/60, Pulse – 110 irregular. The classic signs of cardiogenic shock are low blood pressure, rapid and weak irregular pulse, cold, clammy skin, decreased urinary output, and cerebral hypoxia.
Answer: (A) Take the proper equipment, place the client in a comfortable position, and record the appropriate information in the client’s chart. It is a general or comprehensive statement about the correct procedure, and it includes the basic ideas which are found in the other options
Answer: (B) Evaluation. Evaluation includes observing the person, asking questions, and comparing the patient’s behavioral responses with the expected outcomes.
Answer: (C) History of present illness. The history of present illness is the single most important factor in assisting the health professional in arriving at a diagnosis or determining the person’s needs.
Answer: (A) Trochanter roll extending from the crest of the ileum to the mid-thigh. A trochanter roll, properly placed, provides resistance to the external rotation of the hip.
Answer: (C) Stage III. Clinically, a deep crater or without undermining of adjacent tissue is noted.
Answer: (A) Second intention healing. When wounds dehisce, they will allowed to heal by secondary intention
Answer: (D) Tachycardia. With an extracellular fluid or plasma volume deficit, compensatory mechanisms stimulate the heart, causing an increase in heart rate.
Answer: (A) 0.75. To determine the number of milliliters the client should receive, the nurse uses the fraction method in the following equation. 75 mg/X ml = 100 mg/1 ml, To solve for X, cross-multiply: 75 mg x 1 ml = X ml x 100 mg, 75 = 100X, 75/100 = X, 0.75 ml (or ¾ ml) = X
Answer: (D) It’s a measure of effect, not a standard measure of weight or quantity. An insulin unit is a measure of effect, not a standard measure of weight or quantity. Different drugs measured in units may have no relationship to one another in quality or quantity.
Answer: (B) 38.9 °C. To convert Fahrenheit degreed to Centigrade, use this formula: °C = (°F – 32) ÷ 1.8, °C = (102 – 32) ÷ 1.8, °C = 70 ÷ 1.8, °C = 38.9
Answer: (C) Failing eyesight, especially close vision. Failing eyesight, especially close vision, is one of the first signs of aging in middle life (ages 46 to 64). More frequent aches and pains begin in the early late years (ages 65 to 79). Increase in loss of muscle tone occurs in later years (age 80 and older).