Answer: (A) Puts all the four points of the walker flat on the floor, puts weight on the hand pieces, and then walks into it. When the client uses a walker, the nurse stands adjacent to the affected side. The client is instructed to put all four points of the walker 2 feet forward flat on the floor before putting weight on hand pieces. This will ensure client safety and prevent stress cracks in the walker. The client is then instructed to move the walker forward and walk into it.
Answer: (C) Draws one line to cross out the incorrect information and then initials the change. To correct an error documented in a medical record, the nurse draws one line through the incorrect information and then initials the error. An error is never erased and correction fluid is never used in the medical record.
Answer: (C) Secures the client safety belts after transferring to the stretcher. During the transfer of the client after the surgical procedure is complete, the nurse should avoid exposure of the client because of the risk for potential heat loss. Hurried movements and rapid changes in the position should be avoided because these predispose the client to hypotension. At the time of the transfer from the surgery table to the stretcher, the client is still affected by the effects of the anesthesia; therefore, the client should not move self. Safety belts can prevent the client from falling off the stretcher.
Answer: (B) Gown and gloves. Contact precautions require the use of gloves and a gown if direct client contact is anticipated. Goggles are not necessary unless the nurse anticipates the splashes of blood, body fluids, secretions, or excretions may occur. Shoe protectors are not necessary.
Answer: (C) Quad cane. Crutches and a walker can be difficult to maneuver for a client with weakness on one side. A cane is better suited for client with weakness of the arm and leg on one side. However, the quad cane would provide the most stability because of the structure of the cane and because a quad cane has four legs.
Answer: (D) Left side-lying with the head of the bed elevated 45 degrees. To facilitate removal of fluid from the chest wall, the client is positioned sitting at the edge of the bed leaning over the bedside table with the feet supported on a stool. If the client is unable to sit up, the client is positioned lying in bed on the unaffected side with the head of the bed elevated 30 to 45 degrees.
Answer: (D) Reliability Reliability is consistency of the research instrument. It refers to the repeatability of the instrument in extracting the same responses upon its repeated administration.
Answer: (A) Keep the identities of the subject secret. Keeping the identities of the research subject secret will ensure anonymity because this will hinder providing link between the information given to whoever is its source.
Answer: (A) Descriptive- correlational. Descriptive- correlational study is the most appropriate for this study because it studies the variables that could be the antecedents of the increased incidence of nosocomial infection.
Answer: (C) Use of laboratory data. Incidence of nosocomial infection is best collected through the use of biophysiologic measures, particularly in vitro measurements, hence laboratory data is essential.
Answer: (B) Quasi-experiment. Quasi-experiment is done when randomization and control of the variables are not possible.
Answer: (C) Primary source. This refers to a primary source which is a direct account of the investigation done by the investigator. In contrast to this is a secondary source, which is written by someone other than the original researcher.
Answer: (A) Non-maleficence. Non-maleficence means do not cause harm or do any action that will cause any harm to the patient/client. To do good is referred as beneficence.
Answer: (C) Res ipsa loquitor. Res ipsa loquitor literally means the thing speaks for itself. This means in operational terms that the injury caused is the proof that there was a negligent act.
Answer: (B) The Board can investigate violations of the nursing law and code of ethics. Quasi-judicial power means that the Board of Nursing has the authority to investigate violations of the nursing law and can issue summons, subpoena or subpoena duces tecum as needed.
Answer: (C) May apply for re-issuance of his/her license based on certain conditions stipulated in RA 9173. RA 9173 sec. 24 states that for equity and justice, a revoked license maybe re-issued provided that the following conditions are met: a) the cause for revocation of license has already been corrected or removed; and, b) at least four years has elapsed since the license has been revoked.
Answer: (B) Review related literature. After formulating and delimiting the research problem, the researcher conducts a review of related literature to determine the extent of what has been done on the study by previous researchers.
Answer: (B) Hawthorne effect. Hawthorne effect is based on the study of Elton Mayo and company about the effect of an intervention done to improve the working conditions of the workers on their productivity. It resulted to an increased productivity but not due to the intervention but due to the psychological effects of being observed. They performed differently because they were under observation.
Answer: (B) Determines the different nationality of patients frequently admitted and decides to get representations samples from each. Judgment sampling involves including samples according to the knowledge of the investigator about the participants in the study.
Answer: (B) Madeleine Leininger. Madeleine Leininger developed the theory on transcultural theory based on her observations on the behavior of selected people within a culture.