Answer: (A) Random. Random sampling gives equal chance for all the elements in the population to be picked as part of the sample.
Answer: (A) Degree of agreement and disagreement. Likert scale is a 5-point summated scale used to determine the degree of agreement or disagreement of the respondents to a statement in a study
Answer: (B) Sr. Callista Roy. Sr. Callista Roy developed the Adaptation Model which involves the physiologic mode, self-concept mode, role function mode and dependence mode.
Answer: (A) Span of control. Span of control refers to the number of workers who report directly to a manager.
Answer: (B) Autonomy. Informed consent means that the patient fully understands about the surgery, including the risks involved and the alternative solutions. In giving consent it is done with full knowledge and is given freely. The action of allowing the patient to decide whether a surgery is to be done or not exemplifies the bioethical principle of autonomy.
Answer: (C) Avoid wearing canvas shoes. The client should be instructed to avoid wearing canvas shoes. Canvas shoes cause the feet to perspire, which may, in turn, cause skin irritation and breakdown. Both cotton and cornstarch absorb perspiration. The client should be instructed to cut toenails straight across with nail clippers.
Answer: (D) Ground beef patties. Meat is an excellent source of complete protein, which this client needs to repair the tissue breakdown caused by pressure ulcers. Oranges and broccoli supply vitamin C but not protein. Ice cream supplies only some incomplete protein, making it less helpful in tissue repair.
Answer: (D) Sims’ left lateral. The Sims’ left lateral position is the most common position used to administer a cleansing enema because it allows gravity to aid the flow of fluid along the curve of the sigmoid colon. If the client can’t assume this position nor has poor sphincter control, the dorsal recumbent or right lateral position may be used. The supine and prone positions are inappropriate and uncomfortable for the client.
Answer: (A) Arrange for typing and cross matching of the client’s blood. The nurse first arranges for typing and cross matching of the client’s blood to ensure compatibility with donor blood. The other options,although appropriate when preparing to administer a blood transfusion, come later.
Answer: (A) Independent. Nursing interventions are classified as independent, interdependent, or dependent. Altering the drug schedule to coincide with the client’s daily routine represents an independent intervention, whereas consulting with the physician and pharmacist to change a client’s medication because of adverse reactions represents an interdependent intervention. Administering an already-prescribed drug on time is a dependent intervention. An intradependent nursing intervention doesn’t exist.
Answer: (D) Evaluation. The nursing actions described constitute evaluation of the expected outcomes. The findings show that the expected outcomes have been achieved. Assessment consists of the client’s history, physical examination, and laboratory studies. Analysis consists of considering assessment information to derive the appropriate nursing diagnosis. Implementation is the phase of the nursing process where the nurse puts the plan of care into action.
Answer: (B) To observe the lower extremities. Elastic stockings are used to promote venous return. The nurse needs to remove them once per day to observe the condition of the skin underneath the stockings. Applying the stockings increases blood flow to the heart. When the stockings are in place, the leg muscles can still stretch and relax, and the veins can fill with blood.
Answer:(A) Instructing the client to report any itching, swelling, or dyspnea. Because administration of blood or blood products may cause serious adverse effects such as allergic reactions, the nurse must monitor the client for these effects. Signs and symptoms of life-threatening allergic reactions include itching, swelling, and dyspnea. Although the nurse should inform the client of the duration of the transfusion and should document its administration, these actions are less critical to the client’s immediate health. The nurse should assess vital signs at least hourly during the transfusion.
Answer: (B) Decrease the rate of feedings and the concentration of the formula. Complaints of abdominal discomfort and nausea are common in clients receiving tube feedings. Decreasing the rate of the feeding and the concentration of the formula should decrease the client’s discomfort. Feedings are normally given at room temperature to minimize abdominal cramping. To prevent aspiration during feeding, the head of the client’s bed should be elevated at least 30 degrees. Also, to prevent bacterial growth, feeding containers should be routinely changed every 8 to 12 hours.
Answer: (D) Roll the vial gently between the palms. Rolling the vial gently between the palms produces heat, which helps dissolve the medication. Doing nothing or inverting the vial wouldn’t help dissolve the medication. Shaking the vial vigorously could cause the medication to break down, altering its action.
Answer: (B) Assist the client to the semi-Fowler position if possible. By assisting the client to the semi-Fowler position, the nurse promotes easier chest expansion, breathing, and oxygen intake. The nurse should secure the elastic band so that the face mask fits comfortably and snugly rather than tightly, which could lead to irritation. The nurse should apply the face mask from the client’s nose down to the chin — not vice versa. The nurse should check the connectors between the oxygen equipment and humidifier to ensure that they’re airtight; loosened connectors can cause loss of oxygen.
Answer: (B) 4 hours. A unit of packed RBCs may be given over a period of between 1 and 4 hours. It shouldn’t infuse for longer than 4 hours because the risk of contamination and sepsis increases after that time. Discard or return to the blood bank any blood not given within this time, according to facility policy.
Answer: (B) Immediately before administering the next dose. Measuring the blood drug concentration helps determine whether the dosing has achieved the therapeutic goal. For measurement of the trough, or lowest, blood level of a drug, the nurse draws a blood sample immediately before administering the next dose. Depending on the drug’s duration of action and half-life, peak blood drug levels typically are drawn after administering the next dose.
Answer: (A) The nurse can implement medication orders quickly. A floor stock system enables the nurse to implement medication orders quickly. It doesn’t allow for pharmacist input, nor does it minimize transcription errors or reinforce accurate calculations.
Answer: (C) Shifting dullness over the abdomen. Shifting dullness over the abdomen indicates ascites, an abnormal finding. The other options are normal abdominal findings.