D. Person, Environment, Nursing, Health. This is an actual board exam question and is a common board question. Theorist always describes The nursing profession by first defining what is NURSING, followed by the PERSON, ENVIRONMENT and HEALTH CONCEPT. The most popular theory was perhaps Nightingale’s. She defined nursing as the utilization of the persons environment to assist him towards recovery. She defined the person as somebody who has a reparative capabilities mediated and enhanced by factors in his environment. She describes the environment as something that would facilitate the person’s reparative process and identified different factors like sanitation, noise, etc. that affects a person’s reparative state.
 A. Nightingale. Florence nightingale do not believe in the germ theory, and perhaps this was her biggest mistake. Yet, her theory was the first in nursing. She believed that manipulation of environment that includes appropriate noise, nutrition, hygiene, light, comfort, sanitation etc. could provide the client’s body the nurturance it needs for repair and recovery.
 C. Roy. Remember the word “ THEOROYTICAL “ For Callista Roy, Nursing is a theoretical body of knowledge that prescribes analysis and action to care for an ill person. She introduced the ADAPTATION MODEL and viewed person as a BIOSPSYCHOSOCIAL BEING. She believed that by adaptation, Man can maintain homeostasis.
B. Orem. In self care deficit theory, Nursing is defined as A helping or assistive profession to person who are wholly or partly dependent or when people who are to give care to them are no longer available. Self care, are the activities that a person do for himself to maintain health, life and well being.
A. Neuman. Neuman divided stressors as either intra, inter and extra personal in nature. She said that NURSING is concerned with eliminating these stressors to obtain a maximum level of wellness. The nurse helps the client through PRIMARY, SECONDARY AND TERTIARY prevention modes. Please do not confuse this with LEAVELL and CLARK’S level of prevention.
A. Henderson. This was an actual board question. Remember this definition and associate it with Virginia Henderson. Henderson also describes the NATURE OF NURSING theory. She identified 14 basic needs of the client. She describes nursing roles as SUBSTITUTIVE : Doing everything for the client, SUPPLEMENTARY : Helping the client and COMPLEMENTARY : Working with the client. Breathing normally, Eliminating waste, Eating and drinking adquately, Worship and Play are some of the basic needs according to her.
C. Leininger. There are many theorist that describes nursing as CARE. The most popular was JEAN WATSON’S Human Caring Model. But this question pertains to Leininger’s definition of caring. CUD I LIE IN GER? [ Could I Lie In There ] Is the Mnemonics I am using not to get confused. C stands for CENTRAL , U stands for UNIFYING, D stands for DOMINANT DOMAIN. I emphasize on this matter due to feedback on the last June 2006 batch about a question about CARING.
D. Swanson . Caring according to Swanson involves 5 processes. Knowing means understanding the client. Being with emphasizes the Physical presence of the nurse for the patient. Doing for means doing things for the patient when he is incapable of doing it for himself. Enabling means helping client transcend maturational and developmental stressors in life while Maintaining belief is the ability of the Nurse to inculcate meaning to these events.
B. Watson. The deepest and spiritual definition of Caring came from Jean watson. For her, Caring expands the limits of openess and allows access to higher human spirit.
A. Benner.  I think of CARE BEAR to facilitate retainment of BENNER. As in, Care Benner. For her, Caring means being CONNECTED or making things matter to people. Caring according to Benner give meaning to illness and re establish connection.
B. It serves specific interest of a group.Believe it or not, you should know the definition of profession according to Jahoda because it is asked in the Local boards. A profession should serve the WHOLE COMMUNITY and not just a specific intrest of a group. Everything else, are correct.
A. Concerned with quantity. A professional is concerned with QUALITY and not QUANTITY. In nursing, We have methods of quality assurance and control to evaluate the effectiveness of nursing care. Nurses, are never concerned with QUANTITY of care provided.
C. Caring. Caring and caring alone, is the most unique quality of the Nursing Profession. It is the one the delineate Nursing from other professions.
B. Personality. Personality are qualities that make us different from each other. These are impressions that we made, or the footprints that we leave behind. This is the result of the integration of one’s talents, behavior, appearance, mood, character, morals and impulses into one harmonious whole. Philosophy is the basic truth that fuel our soul and give our life a purpose, it shapes the facets of a person’s character. Charm is to attract other people to be a change agent. Character is our moral values and belief that guides our actions in life.
D. Character.Rationale: Refer to number 14
D. Provide in service education programs, Use accurate nursing audit, formulate philosophy and vision of the institution .  A refers to being a change agent. B is a role of a patient advocate. C is a case manager while D basically summarized functions of a nurse manager. If you haven’t read Lydia Venzon’s Book : NURSING MANAGEMENT TOWARDS QUALITY CARE, I suggest reading it in advance for your management subjects in the graduate school. Formulating philosophy and vision is in PLANNING. Nursing Audit is in CONTROLLING, In service education programs are included in DIRECTING. These are the processes of Nursing Management, I just forgot to add ORGANIZING which includes formulating an organizational structure and plans, Staffing and developing qualifications and job descriptions.
A. Determine client’s need.You can never provide nursing care if you don’t know what are the needs of the client. How can you provide an effective postural drainage if you do not know where is the bulk of the client’s secretion. Therefore, the best description of a care provider is the accurate and prompt determination of the client’s need to be able to render an appropriate nursing care.
B. Client advocate. As a client’s advocate, Nurses are to protect the client’s right and promotes what is best for the client. Knowing that Morphine causes spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and will lead to further increase in the client’s pain, The nurse knew that the best treatment option for the client was not provided and intervene to provide the best possible care.
C. Interdependent. Interdependent functions are those that needs expertise and skills of multiple health professionals. Example is when A child was diagnosed with nephrotic syndrome and the doctor ordered a high protein diet, Budek then work together with the dietician about the age appropriate high protein foods that can be given to the child, Including the preparation to entice the child into eating the food. NOTE : It is still debated if the diet in NS is low, moderate or high protein, In the U.S, Protein is never restricted and can be taken in moderate amount. As far as the local examination is concerned, answer LOW PROTEIN HIGH CALORIC DIET.
A. Total patient care. This is also known as case nursing. It is a method of nursing care wherein, one nurse is assigned to one patient for the delivery of total care. These are the method use by Nursing students, Private duty nurses and those in critical or isolation units.
D. Total patient care .Total patient care works best if there are many nurses but few patients.
A. Functional nursing. Functional nursing is task oriented, One nurse is assigned on a particular task leading to task expertise and efficiency. The nurse will work fast because the procedures are repetitive leading to task mastery. This care is not recommended as this leads fragmented nursing care.
C. Primary nursing. Your keyword in Primary nursing is the 24 hours. This does not necessarily means the nurse is awake for 24 hours, She can have a SECONDARY NURSES that will take care of the patient in shifts where she is not arround.
D. Nightingale .  Refer to question # 2. Hammurabi is the king of babylon that introduces the LEX TALIONES law, If you kill me, you should be killed… If you rob me, You should be robbed, An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. Alexander the great was the son of King Philip II and is from macedonia but he ruled Greece including Persia and Egypt. He is known to use a hammer to pierce a dying soldier’s medulla towards speedy death when he thinks that the soldier will die anyway, just to relieve their suffering. Fabiola was a beautiful roman matron who converted her house into a hospital.
A. Henderson. Refer to question # 6.
A. Levin. Myra Levin described the 4 Conservation principles which are concerned with the Unity and Integrity of an individual. These are ENERGY : Our output to facilitate meeting of our needs. STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY : We mus maintain the integrity of our organs, tissues and systems to be able to function and prevent harmful agents entering our body. PERSONAL INTEGRITY : These refers to our self esteem, self worth, self concept, identify and personality. SOCIAL INTEGRITY : Reflects our societal roles to our society, community, family, friends and fellow individuals.
D. Neuman . Betty Neuman asserted that nursing is a unique profession and is concerned with all the variables affecting the individual’s response to stressors. These are INTRA or within ourselves, EXTRA or outside the individual, INTER means between two or more people. She proposed the HEALTH CARE SYSTEM MODEL which states that by PRIMARY, SECONDARY and TERTIARY prevention, The nurse can help the client maintain stability against these stressors.
B. Johnson. According to Dorothy Johnson, Each person is a behavioral system that is composed of 7 subsystems. Man adjust or adapt to stressors by a using a LEARNED PATTERN OF RESPONSE. Man uses his behavior to meet the demands of the environment, and is able to modified his behavior to support these demands.
C. Weidenbach.Just remember ERNESTINE WEIDENBACHLINICAL.
A. Erickson,Tomlin,Swain
D. Boykin,Schoenhofer . This theory was called GRAND THEORY because boykin and schoenofer thinks that ALL MAN ARE CARING, And that nursing is a response to this unique call. According to them, CARING IS A MORAL IMPERATIVE, meaning, ALL PEOPLE will tend to help a man who fell down the stairs even if he is not trained to do so.
A. Travelbee. Travelbee’s theory was referred to as INTERPERSONAL theory because she postulated that NURSING is to assist the individual and all people that affects this individual to cope with illness, recover and FIND MEANING to this experience. For her, Nursing is a HUMAN TO HUMAN relationship that is formed during illness. To her, an individual is a UNIQUE and irreplaceable being in continuous process of becoming, evolving and changing. PLEASE do remember, that it is PARSE who postulated the theory of HUMAN BECOMING and not TRAVELBEE, for I read books that say it was TRAVELBEE and not PARSE.
C. Kohlberg. Kohlber states that relationships are based on mutual trust. He postulated the levels of morality development. At the first stage called the PREMORAL or preconventional, A child do things and label them as BAD or GOOD depending on the PUNISHMENT or REWARD they get. They have no concept of justice, fairness and equity, for them, If I punch this kid and mom gets mad, thats WRONG. But if I dance and sing, mama smiles and give me a new toy, then I am doing something good. In the Conventional level, The individual actuates his act based on the response of the people around him. He will follow the rules, regulations, laws and morality the society upholds. If the law states that I should not resuscitate this man with a DNR order, then I would not. However, in the Post conventional level or the AUTONOMOUS level, the individual still follows the rules but can make a rule or bend part of these rules according to his own MORALITY. He can change the rules if he thinks that it is needed to be changed. Example is that, A nurse still continue resuscitating the client even if the client has a DNR order because he believes that the client can still recover and his mission is to save lives, not watch patients die.
D. Peters . Remember PETERS for PRINCIPLES. P is to P. He believes that morality has 3 components : EMOTION or how one feels, JUDGEMENT or how one reason and BEHAVIOR or how one actuates his EMOTION and JUDGEMENT. He believes that MORALITY evolves with the development of PRINCPLES or the person’s vitrue and traits. He also believes in AUTOMATICITY of virtues or he calls HABIT, like kindness, charity, honesty, sincerity and thirft which are innate to a person and therfore, will be performed automatically.
C. Identification. A child, according to Freud adopts parental standards, traits, habits and norms through identication. A good example is the corned beef commercial ” WALK LIKE A MAN, TALK LIKE A MAN ” Where the child identifies with his father by wearing the same clothes and doing the same thing.
D. Schulman and Mekler . According to Schulman and Mekler, there are 2 components that makes an action MORAL : The intention should be good and the Act must be just. A good example is ROBIN HOOD, His intention is GOOD but the act is UNJUST, which makes his action IMMORAL.
B. Westerhoff. There are only 2 theorist of FAITH that might be asked in the board examinations. Fowler and Westerhoff. What differs them is that, FAITH of fowler is defined abstractly, Fowler defines faith as a FORCE that gives a meaning to a person’s life while Westerhoff defines faith as a behavior that continuously develops through time.
C. Fowler. Rationale: Refer to # 37
B. Iloilo Mission Hospital School of nursing
C. Philippine General Hospital
A. Elizabeth.Saint Elizabeth of Hungary was a daughter of a King and is the patron saint of nurses. She build hospitals and feed hungry people everyday using the kingdom’s money. She is a princess, but devoted her life in feeding the hungry and serving the sick.
A. Clara louise Maas. Clara Louise Maas sacrificed her life in research of YELLOW FEVER. People during her time do not believe that yellow fever was brought by mosquitoes. To prove that they are wrong, She allowed herself to be bitten by the vector and after days, She died.
C. Moses
C. India
A. Chinese. Chinese believes that male newborns are demon magnets. To fool those demons, they put female clothes to their male newborn.
B. Intuitive period.Egyptians believe that a sick person is someone with an evil force or demon that is inside their heads. To release these evil spirits, They would tend to drill holes on the patient’s skull and it is called TREPHINING.
A. Apprentice period.What dilineates apprentice period among others is that, it ENDED when formal schools were established. During the apprentice period, There is no formal educational institution for nurses. Most of them receive training inside the convent or church. Some of them are trained just for the purpose of nursing the wounded soldiers. But almost all of them are influenced by the christian faith to serve and nurse the sick. When Fliedner build the first formal school for nurses, It marked the end of the APPRENTICESHIP period.
A. Apprentice period. Apprentice period is marked by the emergence of religious orders the are devoted to religious life and the practice of nursing.
C. St. Clare. The poor clares, is the second order of St. Francis of assisi. The first order was founded by St. Francis himself. St. Catherine of Siena was the first lady with the lamp. St. Anne is the mother of mama mary. St. Elizabeth is the patron saint of Nursing.
B. Dark period. Protestantism emerged with Martin Luther questions the Pope and Christianity. This started the Dark period of nursing when the christian faith was smeared by controversies. These leads to closure of some hospital and schools run by the church. Nursing became the work of prostitutes, slaves, mother and least desirable of women.
B. Like some other men.According to ROY, Man as a social being is like some other man. As a spiritual being and Biologic being, Man are all alike. As a psychologic being, No man thinks alike. This basically summarized her BIOPSYHOSOCIAL theory which is included in our licensure exam coverage.
A. Roy. OPEN system theory is ROY. As an open system, man continuously allows input from the environment. Example is when you tell me Im good looking, I will be happy the entire day, Because I am an open system and continuously interact and transact with my environment. A close system is best exemplified by a CANDLE. When you cover the candle with a glass, it will die because it will eventually use all the oxygen it needs inside the glass for combustion. A closed system do not allow inputs and output in its environment.
B. A sole island in vast ocean
B. Rogers. The wholistic theory by Martha Rogers states that MAN is greater than the sum of all its parts and that his dignity and worth will not be lessen even if one of this part is missing. A good example is ANNE BOLEYN, The mother of Queen Elizabeth and the wife of King Henry VIII. She was beheaded because Henry wants to mary another wife and that his divorce was not approved by the pope. Outraged, He insisted on the separation of the Church and State and divorce Anne himself by making everyone believe that Anne is having an affair to another man. Anne was beheaded while her lips is still saying a prayer. Even without her head, People still gave respect to her diseased body and a separate head. She was still remembered as Anne boleyn, Mother of Elizabeth who lead england to their GOLDEN AGE.
B. Rogers. According to Martha Rogers, Man is composed of 2 systems : SUB which includes cells, tissues, organs and system and SUPRA which includes our famly, community and society. She stated that when any of these systems are affected, it will affect the entire individual.
B. Needs should be followed exactly in accordance with their hierarchy.Needs can be deferred. I can urinate later as not to miss the part of the movie’s climax. I can save my money that are supposedly for my lunch to watch my idols in concert. The physiologic needs can be meet later for some other needs and need not be strictly followed according to their hierarchy.
D. Priorities are alterable. Refer to question # 56.
C. Follows the decision of the majority, uphold justice and truth. A,B and D are all qualities of a self actualized person. A self actualized person do not follow the decision of majority but is self directed and can make decisions contrary to a popular opinion.
A. Makes decision contrary to public opinion. Refer to question # 58.
B. Self actualization. The peak of maslow’s hierarchy is the essence of mental health.
D. Italy. Florence Nightingale was born in Florence, Italy, May 12, 1820. Studied in Germany and Practiced in England.
A. Born May 12, 1840
C. Germany
D. Dunn. According to Dunn, High level wellness is the ability of an individual to maximize his full potential with the limitations imposed by his environment. According to him, An individual can be healthy or ill in both favorable and unfavorable environment.
A. Promotes advancement and professional growth among its members
B. Anastacia Giron Tupas
C. Board resolution No. 1955 Promulgated by the BON.  This is an old board resolution. The new Board resolution is No. 220 series of 2004 also known as the Nursing Code Of ethics which states that [ SECTION 17, A ] A nurse should be a member of an accredited professional organization which is the PNA.
C. She does it regularly as an important responsibility
A. RA 7164. 7164 is an old law. This is the 1991 Nursing Law which was repealed by the newer 9173.
B. Independent nurse practitioner
D. September 02, 1922.  According to the official PNA website, they are founded September 02, 1922.
C. Rosario Montenegro. Anastacia Giron Tupas founded the FNA, the former name of the PNA but the first President was Rosario Montenegro.
B. Bernard. According to Bernard, Health is the ability to maintain and Internal Milieu and Illness is the failure to maintain the internal environment.
D. Roy. According to ROY, Health is a state and process of becoming a WHOLE AND INTEGRATED Person.
B. Negative feedback. The theory of Health as the ability to maintain homeostasis was postulated by Walter Cannon. According to him, There are certain FEEDBACK Mechanism that regulates our Homeostasis. A good example is that when we overuse our arm, it will produce pain. PAIN is a negative feedback that signals us that our arm needs a rest.
C. Rogers. Martha Rogers states that HEALTH is synonymous with WELLNESS and that HEALTH and WELLNESS is subjective depending on the definition of one’s culture.
D. King .Emogene King states that health is a state in the life cycle and Illness is any interference on this cycle. I enjoyed the Movie LION KING and like what Mufasa said that they are all part of the CIRCLE OF LIFE, or the Life cycle.
A. Orem. Orem defined health as the SOUNDNESS and WHOLENESS of developed human structure and of bodily and mental functioning.
C. Neuman. Neuman believe that man is composed of subparts and when this subparts are in harmony with the whole system, Wellness results. Please do not confuse this with the SUB and SUPRA systems of martha rogers.
D. Johnson . Once you see the phrase BEHAVIORAL SYSTEM, answer Dorothy Johnson.
D. Leddy and Pepper .According to Leddy and Pepper, Wellness is subjective and depends on an individuals perception of balance, harmony and vitality. Leavell and Clark postulared the ecologic model of health and illness or the AGENT-HOST-ENVIRONMENT model. Peterson and Zderad developed the HUMANISTIC NURSING PRACTICE theory while Benner and Wruber postulate the PRIMACY OF CARING MODEL.
C. Dunn
D. High level Wellness
C. Behavioral. Behavioral precursors includes smoking, alcoholism, high fat intake and other lifestyle choices. Environmental factors involved poor sanitation and over crowding. Heridity includes congenital and diseases acquired through the genes. There are no social precursors according to DUNN.
D. Environmental
A. Becker. According to Becker, The belief of an individual greatly affects his behavior. If a man believes that he is susceptible to an illness, He will alter his behavior in order to prevent its occurence. For example, If a man thinks that diabetes is acquired through high intake of sugar and simple carbohydrates, then he will limit the intake of foods rich in these components.
D. Perceived curability of an illness . If a man think he is susceptibe to a certain disease, thinks that the disease is serious and it is a threat to his life and functions, he will use preventive behaviors to avoid the occurence of this threat.
A. Difficulty adhering to the lifestyle and B. Economic factors. Perceived barriers are those factors that affects the individual’s health preventive actions. Both A and B can affect the individual’s ability to prevent the occurence of diseases. C and D are called Preventive Health Behaviors which enhances the individual’s preventive capabilities.
D. Eudaemonistic Model . Smith formulated 5 models of health. Clinical model simply states that when people experience sign and symptoms, they would think that they are unhealthy therefore, Health is the absence of clinical sign and symptoms of a disease. Role performance model states that when a person does his role and activities without deficits, he is healthy and the inability to perform usual roles means that the person is ill. Adaptive Model states that if a person adapts well with his environment, he is healthy and maladaptation equates illness. Eudaemonistic Model of health according to smith is the actualization of a person’s fullest potential. If a person functions optimally and develop self actualization, then, no doubt that person is healthy.
A. Clinical Model. Rationale: Refer to question # 89.
C. Structural. Modifying variables in Becker’s health belief model includes DEMOGRAPHIC : Age, sex, race etc. SOCIOPSYCHOLOGIC : Social and Peer influence. STRUCTURAL : Knowledge about the disease and prior contact with it and CUES TO ACTION : Which are the sign and symptoms of the disease or advice from friends, mass media and others that forces or makes the individual seek help.
D. Cues to action . Refer to question # 91.
B. Sociopsychologic. Refer to question # 91.
A. Demographic. Refer to question # 91.
A. Reservoir. According to L&C’s Ecologic model, there are 3 factors that affect health and illness. These are the AGENT or the factor the leads to illness, either a bacteria or an event in life. HOST are persons that may or may not be affected by these agents. ENVIRONMENT are factors external to the host that may or may not predispose him to the AGENT.
C. Health Promotion Model. Pender developed the concept of HEALTH PROMOTION MODEL which postulated that an individual engages in health promotion activities to increase well being and attain self actualization. These includes exercise, immunization, healthy lifestyle, good food, self responsibility and all other factors that minimize if not totally eradicate risks and threats of health.
B. Health promotion. Refer to question # 96.
B. Disease. Disease are alteration in body functions resulting in reduction of capabilities or shortening of life span.
A. Illness. Illness is something PERSONAL. Unlike disease, Illness are personal state in which person feels unhealthy. An old person might think he is ILL but in fact, he is not due, to diminishing functions and capabilities, people might think they are ILL. Disease however, is something with tangible basis like lab results, X ray films or clinical sign and symptoms.
B. Watson. This is Jean Watson’s definition of Nursing as caring. This was asked word per word last June 06′ NLE. Benner defines caring as something that matters to people. She postulated the responsibility created by Caring in nursing. She was also responsible for the PRIMACY OF CARING MODEL. Leininger defind the 4 conservation principle while Swanson introduced the 5 processes of caring.