C. Lungs will bronchodilate. To better understand the concept : The autonomic nervous system is composed of SYMPATHETIC and PARASYMPATHETIC Nervous system. It is called AUTONOMIC Because it is Involuntary and stimuli based. You cannot tell your heart to kindly beat for 60 per minute, Nor, Tell your blood vessels, Please constrict, because you need to wear skirt today and your varicosities are bulging. Sympathetic Nervous system is the FIGHT or FLIGHT mechanism. When people FIGHT or RUN, we tend to stimulate the ANS and dominate over SNS. Just Imagine a person FIGHTING and RUNNING to get the idea on the signs of SNS Domination. Imagine a resting and digesting person to get a picture of PNS Domination. A person RUNNING or FIGHTING Needs to bronchodilate, because the oxygen need is increased due to higher demand of the body. Pupils will DILATE to be able to see the enemy clearly. Client will be fully alert to dodge attacks and leap through obstacles during running. The client’s gastric motility will DECREASE Because you cannot afford to urinate or defecate during fighting nor running.
C. Clients BP will increase, there will be vasodilation. If vasodilation will occur, The BP will not increase but decrease. It is true that Blood pressure increases during SNS Stimulation due to the fact that we need more BLOOD to circulate during the FIGHT or FLIGHT Response because the oxygen demand has increased, but this is facilitated by vasoconstriction and not vasodilation. A,B and D are all correct. The liver will increase glycogenolysis or glycogen store utilization due to a heightened demand for energy. Pancrease will decrease insulin secretion because almost every aspect of digestion that is controlled by Parasympathetic nervous system is inhibited when the SNS dominates.
A. Illness.  Disease is a PROVEN FACT based on a medical theory, standards, diagnosis and clinical feature while ILLNESS Is a subjective state of not feeling well based on subjective appraisal, previous experience, peer advice etc.
A. Symptom Experience. A favorite board question are Stages of Illness. When a person starts to believe something is wrong, that person is experiencing signs and symptoms of an illness. The patient will then ASSUME that he is sick. This is called assumption of the sick role where the patient accepts he is Ill and try to give up some activities. Since the client only ASSUMES his illness, he will try to ask someone to validate if what he is experiencing is a disease, This is now called as MEDICAL CARE CONTACT. The client seeks professional advice for validation, reassurance, clarification and explanation of the symptoms he is experiencing. client will then start his dependent patient role of receiving care from the health care providers. The last stage of Illness is the RECOVERY stage where the patient gives up the sick role and assumes the previous normal gunctions.
D. Dependent patient role. In the dependent patient role stage, Client needs professionals for help. They have a choice either to accept or reject the professional’s decisions but patients are usually passive and accepting. Regression tends to occur more in this period.
B. Assumption of sick role. Acceptance of illness occurs in the Assumption of sick role phase of illness.
C. Medical care contact. At this stage, The patient seeks for validation of his symptom experience. He wants to find out if what he feels are normal or not normal. He wants someone to explain why is he feeling these signs and symptoms and wants to know the probable outcome of this experience.
 A. One should be held responsible for his condition. The nurse should not judge the patient and not view the patient as the cause or someone responsible for his illness. A sick client is excused from his societal roles, Oblige to get well as soon as possible and Obliged to seek competent help.
C. Risk factor
A. Susceptibility. Immunity is the ABSOLUTE Resistance to a pathogen considering that person has an INTACT IMMUNITY while susceptibility is the DEGREE of resistance. Degree of resistance means how well would the individual combat the pathogens and repel infection or invasion of these disease causing organisms. A susceptible person is someone who has a very low degree of resistance to combat pathogens. An Immune person is someone that can easily repel specific pathogens. However, Remember that even if a person is IMMUNE [ Vaccination ] Immunity can always be impaired in cases of chemotherapy, HIV, Burns, etc.
 A. Syndrome. Symptoms are individual manifestation of a certain disease. For example, In Tourette syndrome, patient will manifest TICS, but this alone is not enough to diagnose the patient as other diseases has the same tic manifestation. Syndrome means COLLECTION of these symptoms that occurs together to characterize a certain disease. Tics with coprolalia, echolalia, palilalia, choreas or other movement disorders are characteristics of TOURETTE SYNDROME.
D. Iatrogenic. Iatrogenic diseases refers to those that resulted from treatment of a certain disease. For example, A child frequently exposed to the X-RAY Machine develops redness and partial thickness burns over the chest area. Neoplastic are malignant diseases cause by proliferation of abnormally growing cells. Traumatic are brought about by injuries like Motor vehicular accidents. Nosocomial are infections that acquired INSIDE the hospital. Example is UTI Because of catheterization, This is commonly caused by E.Coli.
 B. 2 and 3. Aside from being NEOPLASTIC, Cancer is considered as IDIOPATHIC because the cause is UNKNOWN.
C. Exacerbation
A. Chronic. A good example is Multiple sclerosis that characterized by periods of remissions and exacerbation and it is a CHRONIC Disease. An acute and sub acute diseases occurs too short to manifest remissions. Chronic diseases persists longer than 6 months that is why remissions and exacerbation are observable.
D. Organic. As the word implies, ORGANIC Diseases are those that causes a CHANGE in the structure of the organs and systems. Inorganic diseases is synonymous with FUNCTIONAL diseases wherein, There is no evident structural, anatomical or physical change in the structure of the organ or system but function is altered due to other causes, which is usually due to abnormal response of the organ to stressors. Therefore, ORGANIC BRAIN SYNDROME are anatomic and physiologic change in the BRAIN that is NON PROGRESSIVE BUT IRREVERSIBLE caused by alteration in structure of the brain and it’s supporting structure which manifests different sign and symptoms of neurological, physiologic and psychologic alterations. Mental disorders manifesting symptoms of psychoses without any evident organic or structural damage are termed as INORGANIC PSYCHOSES while alteration in the organ structures that causes symptoms of bizaare pyschotic behavior is termed as ORGANIC PSYCHOSES.
B. Ecology. Ecology is the science that deals with the ECOSYSTEM and its effects on living things in the biosphere. It deals with diseases in relationship with the environment. Epidimiology is simply the Study of diseases and its occurence and distribution in man for the purpose of controlling and preventing diseases. This was asked during the previous boards.
A. Epidemiology. Refer to number 17.
C. Inorganic. Refer to number 16.
C. Tertiary. Perhaps one of the easiest concept but asked frequently in the NLE. Primary refers to preventions that aims in preventing the disease. Examples are healthy lifestyle, good nutrition, knowledge seeking behaviors etc. Secondary prevention are those that deals with early diagnostics, case finding and treatments. Examples are monthly breast self exam, Chest X-RAY, Antibiotic treatment to cure infection, Iron therapy to treat anemia etc. Tertiary prevention aims on maintaining optimum level of functioning during or after the impact of a disease that threatens to alter the normal body functioning. Examples are prosthetis fitting for an amputated leg after an accident, Self monitoring of glucose among diabetics, TPA Therapy after stroke etc. The confusing part is between the treatment in secondary and treatment in tertiary. To best differentiate the two, A client with ANEMIA that is being treated with ferrous sulfate is considered being in the SECONDARY PREVENTION because ANEMIA once treated, will move the client on PRE ILLNESS STATE again. However, In cases of ASPIRING Therapy in cases of stroke, ASPIRING no longer cure the patient or PUT HIM IN THE PRE ILLNESS STATE. ASA therapy is done in order to prevent coagulation of the blood that can lead to thrombus formation and a another possible stroke. You might wonder why I spelled ASPIRIN as ASPIRING, Its side effect is OTOTOXICITY [ CN VIII ] that leads to TINNITUS or ringing of the ears.
 D. None of the above. The nurse never increases the person’s susceptibility to illness but rather, LESSEN the person’s susceptibility to illness.
B. Secondary. Secondary prevention is also known as HEALTH MAINTENANCE Prevention. Here, The person feels signs and symptoms and seeks Diagnosis and treatment in order to prevent deblitating complications. Even if the person feels healthy, We are required to MAINTAIN our health by monthly check ups, Physical examinations, Diagnostics etc.
A. Primary. PPD or PERSONAL PROTECTIVE DEVICES are worn by the workes in a hazardous environment to protect them from injuries and hazards. This is considered as a PRIMARY prevention because the nurse prevents occurence of diseases and injuries.
A. Primary
B. Secondary
C. Tertiary
D. Radio and Television. An actual board question, The best way to disseminate information to the public is by TELEVISION followed by RADIO. This is how the DOH establish its IEC Programs other than publising posters, leaflets and brochures. An emerging new way to disseminate is through the internet.
B. Neuman. The supra and subsystems are theories of Martha Rogers but the parts and subparts are Betty Neuman’s. She stated that HEALTH is a state where in all parts and subparts of an individual are in harmony with the whole system. Margarex Newman defined health as an EXPANDING CONSCIOUSNESS. Her name is Margaret not Margarex, I just used that to help you remember her theory of health.
D. 1,2,3,4. All of the following are correct statement about health. The first one is the definition by WHO, The second one is from Walter Cannon’s homeostasis theory. Third one is from Claude Bernard’s concept of Health as Internal Milieu and the last one is Neuman’s Theory.
C. Cannon. Walter Cannon advocated health as HOMEOSTASIS or the ability to maintain dynamic equilibrium. Hans Selye postulated Concepts about Stress and Adaptation. Bernard defined health as the ability to maintain internal milieu and Rogers defined Health as Wellness that is influenced by individual’s culture.
D. Lifestyle
B. Age
A. Surgical Asepsis. Surgical Asepsis is also known as STERILE TECHNIQUE while Medical Asepsis is synonymous with CLEAN TECHNIQUE.
D. Carrier
B. Contact
B. Disinfectant. Disinfectants are used on inanimate objects while Antiseptics are intended for use on persons and other living things. Both can kill and inhibit growth of microorganism but cannot kill their spores. That is when autoclaving or steam under pressure gets in, Autoclaving can kill almost ALL type of microoganism including their spores.
C. Disinfection. Both A and B are capable on killing spores. Autoclaving is a form of Sterilization. Medical Asepsis is a PRACTICE designed to minimize or reduce the transfer of pathogens, also known as your CLEAN TECHNIQUE. Disinfection is the PROCESS of removing pathogens but not their spores.
C. Illness period. In incubation period, The disease has been introduced to the body but no sign and symptom appear because the pathogen is not yet strong enough to cause it and may still need to multiply. The second period is called prodromal period. This is when the appearance of non specific signs and symptoms sets in, This is when the sign and symptoms starts to appear. Illness period is characterized by the appearance of specific signs and symptoms or refer tp as time with the greatest symptom experience. Acme is the PEAK of illness intensity while the convalescent period is characterized by the abatement of the disease process or it’s gradual disappearance.
B. Prodromal period. To be able to categorize MEASLES in the Illness period, the specific signs of Fever, Koplik’s Spot and Rashes must appear. In the situation above, Only general signs and symptoms appeared and the Specific signs and symptoms is yet to appear, therefore, the illness is still in the Prodromal period. Signs and symptoms of measles during the prodromal phase are Fever, fatigue, runny nose, cough and conjunctivitis. Koplik’s spot heralds the Illness period and cough is the last symptom to disappear. All of this processes take place in 10 days that is why, Measles is also known as 10 day measles.
A. Incubation period. Anthrax can have an incubation period of hours to 7 days with an average of 48 hours. Since the question stated exposure, we can now assume that the mailman is in the incubation period.
D. Mode of transmission. Mode of transmission is the weakest link in the chain of infection. It is easily manipulated by the Nurses using the tiers of prevention, either by instituting transmission based precautions, Universal precaution or Isolation techniques.
C. 4,5,3,6,2,1. Chain of infection starts with the SOURCE : The etiologic agent itself. It will first proliferate on a RESERVOIR and will need a PORTAL OF EXIT to be able to TRANSMIT irslef using a PORTAL OF ENTRY to a SUSCEPTIBLE HOST. A simple way to understand the process is by looking at the lives of a young queen ant that is starting to build her colony. Imagine the QUEEN ANT as a SOURCE or the ETIOLOGIC AGENT. She first need to build a COLONY, OR the RESERVOIR where she will start to lay the first eggs to be able to produce her worker ants and soldier ants to be able to defend and sustain the new colony. They need to EXIT [PORTAL OF EXIT] their colony and crawl [MODE OF TRANSMISSION] in search of foods by ENTERING / INVADING [PORTAL OF ENTRY] our HOUSE [SUSCEPTIBLE HOST]. By imagining the Ant’s life cycle, we can easily arrange the chain of infection.
D. Vector borne transmission. Lyme disease is caused by Borrelia Burdorferi and is transmitted by a TICK BITE.
D. Non Specificity. To be able to cause a disease, A pathogen should have a TARGET ORGAN/S. The pathogen should be specific to these organs to cause an infection. Mycobacterium Avium is NON SPECIFIC to human organs and therefore, not infective to humans but deadly to birds. An immunocompromised individual, specially AIDS Patient, could be infected with these NON SPECIFIC diseases due to impaired immune system.
C. Spread by cross contamination via hands of caregiver. The hands of the caregiver like nurses, is the main cause of cross contamination in hospital setting. That is why HANDWASHING is the single most important procedure to prevent the occurence of cross contamination and nosocomial infection. D refers to Nosocomial infection and UTI is the most common noscomial infection in the hospital caused by urinary catheterization. E.Coli seems to be the major cause of this incident. B best fits Cross Contamination, It is the spread of microogranisms from patient o patient.
A. Droplet transmission
 A. Skin. Remember that intact skin and mucus membrane is our first line of defense against infection.
A. Creed. Creed, Faith or religious belief do not affect person’s susceptibility to illness. Medication like corticosteroids could supress a person’s immune system that will lead to increase susceptibility. Color of the skin could affect person’s susceptibility to certain skin diseases. A dark skinned person has lower risk of skin cancer than a fair skinned person. Fair skinned person also has a higher risk for cholecystitis and cholelithiasis.
C. Artificial active immunity. TT1 ti TT2 are considered the primary dose, while TT3 to TT5 are the booster dose. A woman with completed immunization of DPT need not receive TT1 and TT2. Tetanus toxoid is the actual toxin produce by clostridium tetani but on its WEAK and INACTIVATED form. It is Artificial because it did not occur in the course of actual illness or infection, it is Active because what has been passed is an actual toxin and not a ready made immunoglobulin.
D. Artificial passive immunity. In this scenario, Agatha was already wounded and has injuries. Giving the toxin [TT Vaccine] itself would not help Agatha because it will take time before the immune system produce antitoxin. What agatha needs now is a ready made anti toxin in the form of ATS or TTIg. This is artificial, because the body of agatha did not produce it. It is passive because her immune system is not stimulated but rather, a ready made Immune globulin is given to immediately supress the invasion.
D. Handwashing. When you see the word HANDWASHING as one of the options, 90% Chance it is the correct answer in the local board. Or should I say, 100% because I have yet to see question from 1988 to 2005 board questions that has option HANDWASHING on it but is not the correct answer.
B. Friction. The most important aspect of handwashing is FRICTION. The rest, will just enhance friction. The use of soap lowers the surface tension thereby increasing the effectiveness of friction. Water helps remove transient bacteria by working with soap to create the lather that reduces surface tension. Time is of essence but friction is the most essential aspect of handwashing.
D. Below the elbow, Hands are dirtier than the lower arms. Hands are held BELOW the elbow in medical asepsis in contrast with surgical asepsis, wherein, nurses are required to keep the hands above the waist. The rationale is because in medical asepsis, Hands are considered dirtier than the elbow and therefore, to limit contamination of the lower arm, The hands should always be below the elbow.
C. 15 to 30 seconds each hand. Each hands requires atleast 15 to 30 seconds of handwashing to effectively remove transient microorganisms.
B. 10 seconds. According to Kozier, The minimum time required for watching each hands is 10 seconds and should not be lower than that. The recommended time, again, is 15 to 30 seconds.
C. 2-4 ml. If a liquid soap is to be used, 1 tsp [ 5ml ] of liquid soap is recommended for handwashing procedure.
A. Equipment with small lumen are easier to clean. Equipments with LARGE LUMEN are easier to clean than those with small lumen. B C and D are all correct.
C. For boiling to be effective, a minimum of 15 minutes is required. Boiling is the most common and least expensive method of sterilization used in home. For it to be effective, you should boil articles for atleast 15 minutes.
D. Radiation. Imagine foods and drugs that are being sterilized by a boiling water, ethylene oxide gas and autoclave or steam under pressure, They will be inactivated by these methods. Ethylene oxide gas used in gas sterlization is TOXIC to humans. Boiling the food will alter its consistency and nutrients. Autoclaving the food is never performed. Radiation using microwave oven or Ionizing radiation penetrates to foods and drugs thus, sterilizing them.
B. Terminal disinfection. Terminal disinfection refers to practices to remove pathogens that stayed in the belongings or immediate environemnt of an infected client who has been discharged. An example would be Killing airborne TB Bacilli using UV Light. Concurrent disinfection refers to ongoing efforts implented during the client’s stay to remove or limit pathogens in his supplies, belongings, immediate environment in order to control the spread of the disease. An example is cleaning the bedside commode of a client with radium implant on her cervix with a bleach disinfectant after each voiding.
C. Shake the linens to remove dust. NEVER shake the linens. Once soiled, fold it inwards clean surface out. Shaking the linen will further spread pathogens that has been harbored by the fabric.
C. The instruments are put into unlocked position, on their hinge, during the autoclave. Only C is correct. Metals with locks, like clamps and scissors should be UNLOCKED in order to minimize stiffening caused by autoclave to the hinges of these metals. NOT ALL microorganism are destroyed by autoclaving. There are recently discovered microorganism that is invulnarable to extreme heat. Autoclaved instruments are to be used within 2 weeks. Only the same type of metals should be autoclaved as this will alteration in plating of these metals.
D. N95 Mask or particulate masks can filter organism as mall as 1 micromillimeter.  Mask should cover both nose and mouth. Masks will not function optimally when wet. Masks should be worn not greater than 4 hours, as it will lose effectiveness after 4 hours. N95 mask or particulate mask can filter organism as small as 1 micromillimeter.
D. Yellow trashcan. Infectious waste like blood and blood products, wet diapers and dressings are thrown in yellow trashcans.
A. Puncture proof container. Needles, scalpels and other sharps are to be disposed in a puncture proof container.
C. Using a long forceps, Remove it and place it on a lead container. A dislodged radioactive cervical implant in brachytherapy are to be picked by a LONG FORCEP and stored in a LEAD CONTAINER in order to prevent damage on the client’s normal tissue. Calling the physician is the second most appropriate action among the choices. A nurse should never attempt to put it back nor, touch it with her bare hands.
A. In specially marked BIO HAZARD Containers. Leeches, in leech therapy or LEECH PHLEBOTOMY are to be disposed on a BIO HAZARD container. They are never re used as this could cause transfer of infection. These leeches are hospital grown and not the usual leeches found in swamps.
A. Recapping the needle before disposal to prevent injuries. Never recap needles. They are directly disposed in a puncture proof container after used. Recapping the needles could cause injury to the nurse and spread of infection. B C and D are all appropriate. Standard precaution is sufficient for an HIV patient. A client with neutropenia are not given fresh and uncooked fruits and vegetables for even the non infective organisms found in these foods could cause severe infection on an immunocompromised patients.
D. In a room with negative air pressure and atleast 6 air exchanges an hour. TB patients should have a private room with negative air pressure and atleast 6 to 12 air exhanges per hour. Negative pressure room will prevent air inside the room from escaping. Air exchanges are necessary since the client’s room do not allow air to get out of the room.
C. Droplet precaution. Droplet precaution is sufficient on client’s with RUBELLA or german measles.
B. Airborne precaution. Measles is highly communicable and more contagious than Rubella, It requires airborne precaution as it is spread by small particle droplets that remains suspended in air and disperesed by air movements.
D. Contact precaution. Impetigo causes blisters or sores in the skin. It is generally caused by GABS or Staph Aureaus. It is spread by skin to skin contact or by scratching the lesions and touching another person’s skin.
A. Don’t mind the incident, continue to insert the NG Tube. The digestive tract is not sterile, and therefore, simple errors like this would not cause harm to the patient. NGT tube need not be sterile, and so is colostomy and rectal tubes. Clean technique is sufficient during NGT and colostomy care.
C. Once the skin has been sterilized, considered it sterile. Human skin is impossible to be sterilized. It contains normal flora of microorganism. A B and D are all correct.
 C. Sterile conscience, is the best method to enhance sterile technique.  Sterile conscience, or the moral imperative of a nurse to be honest in practicing sterile technique, is the best method to enhance sterile technique. Autoclaved linens are considered sterile only within 2 weeks even if the bagging is intact. Surgical technique is a team effort of each nurse. If a scrubbed person leave the sterile field and area, he must do the process all over again.
B. The non dominant hand. Gloves are put on the non dominant hands first and then, the dominant hand. The rationale is simply because humans tend to use the dominant hand first before the non dominant hand. Out of 10 humans that will put on their sterile gloves, 8 of them will put the gloves on their non dominant hands first.
C. Before surgical hand scrub. The nurse should put his goggles, cap and mask prior to washing the hands. If he wash his hands prior to putting all these equipments, he must wash his hands again as these equipments are said to be UNSTERILE.
D. Adjust only the fitting of the gloves after both gloves are on. The nurse should only adjust fitting of the gloves when they are both on the hands. Not doing so will break the sterile technique. Only 4 gingers are slipped when picking up the second gloves. You cannot slip all of your fingers as the cuff is limited and the thumb would not be able to enter the cuff. The first glove is grasp by simply picking it up with the first 2 fingers and a thumb in a pinching motion. Gloves are put on the non dominant hands first.
A. The glove of the non dominant hand. Gloves are worn in the non dominant hand first, and is removed also from the non dominant hand first. Rationale is simply because in 10 people removing gloves, 8 of them will use the dominant hand first and remove the gloves of the non dominant hand.
D. 2,3,1,4,5. The nurse should use CaMEy Hand and Body Lotion in moisturizing his hand before surgical procedure and after handwashing. Ca stands for CAP, Mstands for MASK, Ey stands for eye goggles. The nurse will do handwashing and then [HAND], Don the gloves first and wear the Gown [BODY]. I created this mnemonic and I advise you use it because you can never forget Camey hand and body lotion. [ Yes, I know it is spelled as CAMAY ]]
A. 4,3,5,1,2. When the nurse is about to remove his protective devices, The nurse will remove the GLOVES first followed by the MASK and GOWN then, other devices like cap, shoe cover, etc. This is to prevent contamination of hair, neck and face area.
C. 6 inches. Even if you do not know the answer to this question, you can answer it correctly by imagining. If you pour the NSS into a receptacle 1 to 3 inch above it, Chances are, The mouth of the NSS bottle would dip into the receptacle as you fill it, making it contaminated. If you pour the NSS bottle into a receptacle 10 inches above it, that is too high, chances are, as you pour the NSS, most will spill out because the force will be too much for the buoyant force to handle. It will also be difficult to pour something precisely into a receptacle as the height increases between the receptacle and the bottle. 6 inches is the correct answer. It is not to low nor too high.
A. The tip should always be lower than the handle. A sterile forcep is usually dipped into a disinfectant or germicidal solution. Imagine, if the tip is HIGHER than the handle, the solution will go into the handle and into your hands and as you use the forcep, you will eventually lower its tip making the solution in your hand go BACK into the tip thus contaminating the sterile area of the forcep. To prevent this, the tip should always be lower than the handle. In situation questions like this, IMAGINATION is very important.
C. 1,2,3,4. All soiled equipments use in an infectious client are disposed INSIDE the client’s room to prevent contamination outside the client’s room. The nurse is correct in using Mask the covers both nose and mouth. Hands are washed before and after removing the gloves and before and after you enter the client’s room. Gloves and contaminated suction tip are thrown in trashcan found in the clients room.
C. 1,2,3. Cap, mask and shoe cover are worn BEFORE scrubbing.
D. Remove mask and gown before removing gloves. Gloves are the dirtiest protective item nurses are wearing and therefore, the first to be removed to prevent spread of microorganism as you remove the mask and gown.
 C. All stressors evoke common adaptive response. All stressors evoke common adaptive response. A psychologic fear like nightmare and a real fear or real perceive threat evokes common manifestation like tachycardia, tachypnea, sweating, increase muscle tension etc. ALL diseases and illness causes stress. Stress can be both REAL or IMAGINARY. Hemostasis refers to the ARREST of blood flowing abnormally through a damage vessel. Homeostasis is the one that refers to dynamic state of equilibrium according to Walter Cannon.
A. Hans Selye. Hans Selye is the only theorist who proposed an intriguing theory about stress that has been widely used and accepted by professionals today. He conceptualized two types of human response to stress, The GAS or general adaptation syndrome which is characterized by stages of ALARM, RESISTANCE and EXHAUSTION. The Local adaptation syndrome controls stress through a particular body part. Example is when you have been wounded in your finger, it will produce PAIN to let you know that you should protect that particular damaged area, it will also produce inflammation to limit and control the spread of injury and facilitate healing process. Another example is when you are frequently lifting heavy objects, eventually, you arm, back and leg muscles hypertorphies to adapt to the stress of heavy lifting.
B. Man, whenever he encounters stresses, always adapts to it. Man, do not always adapt to stress. Sometimes, stress can lead to exhaustion and eventually, death. A,C and D are all correct.
A. Stress is essential. Stress is ESSENTIAL. No man can live normally without stress. It is essential because it is evoked by the body’s normal pattern of response and leads to a favorable adaptive mechanism that are utilized in the future when more stressors are encountered by the body. Man can encounter stress even while asleep, example is nightmare. Disease are multifactorial, No diseases are caused by a single stressors. Stress are sometimes favorable and are not always a cause for distress. An example of favorable stress is when a carpenter meets the demand and stress of everyday work. He then develops calluses on the hand to lessen the pressure of the hammer against the tissues of his hand. He also develop larger muscle and more dense bones in the arm, thus, a stress will lead to adaptations to decrease that particular stress.
D. Death can ensue. Death can ensue as early as the stage of alarm. Exhaustion results to a prolonged exposure to stress. Resistance is when the levels of resistance increases and characterized by being able to adapt.
A. Stage of Alarm. Adaptation mechanisms begin in the stage of alarm. This is when the adaptive mechanism are mobilized. When someone shouts SUNOG!!! your heart will begin to beat faster, you vessels constricted and bp increased.
B. Stage of Resistance
 A. Stage of Alarm. Resistance are decreased in the stage of alarm. Resistance is absent in the stage of exhaustion. Resistance is increased in the stage of resistance.
B. Stage of Resistance
D. Stage of Exhaustion
C. Adaptive response is immediately mobilized, doesn’t require time. Aside from having limits that leads to exhaustion. Adaptive response requires time for it to act. It requires energy, physical and psychological taxes that needs time for our body to mobilize and utilize.
D. Technological adaptive mode
C. Sociocultural adaptive mode. Sociocultural adaptive modes include language, communication, dressing, acting and socializing in line with the social and cultural standard of the people around the adapting individual.
B. Psychologic adaptive mode