1. Marco who was diagnosed with brain tumor was scheduled for craniotomy. In preventing the development of cerebral edema after surgery, the nurse should expect the use of:

Diuretics
Antihypertensive
Steroids
Anticonvulsants
2. Halfway through the administration of blood, the female client complains of lumbar pain. After stopping the infusion Nurse Hazel should:

Increase the flow of normal saline
Assess the pain further
Notify the blood bank
Obtain vital signs.
3. Nurse Maureen knows that the positive diagnosis for HIV infection is made based on which of the following:

A history of high risk sexual behaviors.
Positive ELISA and western blot tests
Identification of an associated opportunistic infection
Evidence of extreme weight loss and high fever
4. Nurse Maureen is aware that a client who has been diagnosed with chronic renal failure recognizes an adequate amount of high-biologic-value protein when the food the client selected from the menu was:

Raw carrots
Apple juice
Whole wheat bread
Cottage cheese
5. Kenneth who has diagnosed with uremic syndrome has the potential to develop complications. Which among the following complications should the nurse anticipates:

Flapping hand tremors
An elevated hematocrit level
Hypotension
Hypokalemia
6. A client is admitted to the hospital with benign prostatic hyperplasia, the nurse most relevant assessment would be:

Flank pain radiating in the groin
Distention of the lower abdomen
Perineal edema
Urethral discharge
7. A client has undergone with penile implant. After 24 hrs of surgery, the client’s scrotum was edematous and painful. The nurse should:

Assist the client with sitz bath
Apply war soaks in the scrotum
Elevate the scrotum using a soft support
Prepare for a possible incision and drainage.
8. Nurse hazel receives emergency laboratory results for a client with chest pain and immediately informs the physician. An increased myoglobin level suggests which of the following?

Liver disease
Myocardial damage
Hypertension
Cancer
9. Nurse Maureen would expect the a client with mitral stenosis would demonstrate symptoms associated with congestion in the:

Right atrium
Superior vena cava
Aorta
Pulmonary
10. A client has been diagnosed with hypertension. The nurse priority nursing diagnosis would be:

Ineffective health maintenance
Impaired skin integrity
Deficient fluid volume
Pain
11. Nurse Hazel teaches the client with angina about common expected side effects of nitroglycerin including:

high blood pressure
stomach cramps
headache
shortness of breath
12. The following are lipid abnormalities. Which of the following is a risk factor for the development of atherosclerosis and PVD?

High levels of low density lipid (LDL) cholesterol
High levels of high density lipid (HDL) cholesterol
Low concentration triglycerides
Low levels of LDL cholesterol.
13. Which of the following represents a significant risk immediately after surgery for repair of aortic aneurysm?

Potential wound infection
Potential ineffective coping
Potential electrolyte balance
Potential alteration in renal perfusion
14. Nurse Josie should instruct the client to eat which of the following foods to obtain the best supply of Vitamin B12?

dairy products
vegetables
Grains
Broccoli
15. Karen has been diagnosed with aplastic anemia. The nurse monitors for changes in which of the following physiologic functions?

Bowel function
Peripheral sensation
Bleeding tendencies
Intake and out put
16. Lydia is scheduled for elective splenectomy. Before the clients goes to surgery, the nurse in charge final assessment would be:

signed consent
vital signs
name band
empty bladder
17. What is the peak age range in acquiring acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)?

4 to 12 years.
20 to 30 years
40 to 50 years
60 60 70 years
18. Marie with acute lymphocytic leukemia suffers from nausea and headache. These clinical manifestations may indicate all of the following except

effects of radiation
chemotherapy side effects
meningeal irritation
gastric distension
19. A client has been diagnosed with Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC). Which of the following is contraindicated with the client?

Administering Heparin
Administering Coumadin
Treating the underlying cause
Replacing depleted blood products
20. Which of the following findings is the best indication that fluid replacement for the client with hypovolemic shock is adequate?

Urine output greater than 30ml/hr
Respiratory rate of 21 breaths/minute
Diastolic blood pressure greater than 90 mmhg
Systolic blood pressure greater than 110 mmhg
21. Which of the following signs and symptoms would Nurse Maureen include in teaching plan as an early manifestation of laryngeal cancer?

Stomatitis
Airway obstruction
Hoarseness
Dysphagia
22. Karina a client with myasthenia gravis is to receive immunosuppressive therapy. The nurse understands that this therapy is effective because it:

Promotes the removal of antibodies that impair the transmission of impulses
Stimulates the production of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction.
Decreases the production of autoantibodies that attack the acetylcholine receptors.
Inhibits the breakdown of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction.
23. A female client is receiving IV Mannitol. An assessment specific to safe administration of the said drug is:

Vital signs q4h
Weighing daily
Urine output hourly
Level of consciousness q4h
24. Patricia a 20 year old college student with diabetes mellitus requests additional information about the advantages of using a pen like insulin delivery devices. The nurse explains that the advantages of these devices over syringes includes:

Accurate dose delivery
Shorter injection time
Lower cost with reusable insulin cartridges
Use of smaller gauge needle.
25. A male client’s left tibia is fractures in an automobile accident, and a cast is applied. To assess for damage to major blood vessels from the fracture tibia, the nurse in charge should monitor the client for:

Swelling of the left thigh
Increased skin temperature of the foot
Prolonged reperfusion of the toes after blanching
Increased blood pressure
26. After a long leg cast is removed, the male client should:

Cleanse the leg by scrubbing with a brisk motion
Put leg through full range of motion twice daily
Report any discomfort or stiffness to the physician
Elevate the leg when sitting for long periods of time.
27. While performing a physical assessment of a male client with gout of the great toe, NurseVivian should assess for additional tophi (urate deposits) on the:

Buttocks
Ears
Face
Abdomen
28. Nurse Katrina would recognize that the demonstration of crutch walking with tripod gait was understood when the client places weight on the:

Palms of the hands and axillary regions
Palms of the hand
Axillary regions
Feet, which are set apart
29. Mang Jose with rheumatoid arthritis states, “the only time I am without pain is when I lie in bed perfectly still”. During the convalescent stage, the nurse in charge with Mang Jose should encourage:

Active joint flexion and extension
Continued immobility until pain subsides
Range of motion exercises twice daily
Flexion exercises three times daily
30. A male client has undergone spinal surgery, the nurse should:

Observe the client’s bowel movement and voiding patterns
Log-roll the client to prone position
Assess the client’s feet for sensation and circulation
Encourage client to drink plenty of fluids
31. Marina with acute renal failure moves into the diuretic phase after one week of therapy. During this phase the client must be assessed for signs of developing:

Hypovolemia
renal failure
metabolic acidosis
hyperkalemia
32. Nurse Judith obtains a specimen of clear nasal drainage from a client with a head injury. Which of the following tests differentiates mucus from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)?

Protein
Specific gravity
Glucose
Microorganism
33. A 22 year old client suffered from his first tonic-clonic seizure. Upon awakening the client asks the nurse, “What caused me to have a seizure? Which of the following would the nurse include in the primary cause of tonic clonic seizures in adults more the 20 years?

Electrolyte imbalance
Head trauma
Epilepsy
Congenital defect
34. What is the priority nursing assessment in the first 24 hours after admission of the client with thrombotic CVA?

Pupil size and papillary response
cholesterol level
Echocardiogram
Bowel sounds
35. Nurse Linda is preparing a client with multiple sclerosis for discharge from the hospital to home. Which of the following instruction is most appropriate?

“Practice using the mechanical aids that you will need when future disabilities arise”.
“Follow good health habits to change the course of the disease”.
“Keep active, use stress reduction strategies, and avoid fatigue.
“You will need to accept the necessity for a quiet and inactive lifestyle”.
36. The nurse is aware the early indicator of hypoxia in the unconscious client is:

Cyanosis
Increased respirations
Hypertension
Restlessness
37. A client is experiencing spinal shock. Nurse Myrna should expect the function of the bladder to be which of the following?

Normal
Atonic
Spastic
Uncontrolled
38. Which of the following stage the carcinogen is irreversible?

Progression stage
Initiation stage
Regression stage
Promotion stage
39. Among the following components thorough pain assessment, which is the most significant?

Effect
Cause
Causing factors
Intensity
40. A 65 year old female is experiencing flare up of pruritus. Which of the client’s action could aggravate the cause of flare ups?

Sleeping in cool and humidified environment
Daily baths with fragrant soap
Using clothes made from 100% cotton
Increasing fluid intake
41. Atropine sulfate (Atropine) is contraindicated in all but one of the following client?

A client with high blood
A client with bowel obstruction
A client with glaucoma
A client with U.T.I
42. Among the following clients, which among them is high risk for potential hazards from the surgical experience?

67-year-old client
49-year-old client
33-year-old client
15-year-old client
43. Nurse Jon assesses vital signs on a client undergone epidural anesthesia. Which of the following would the nurse assess next?

Headache
Bladder distension
Dizziness
Ability to move legs
44. Nurse Katrina should anticipate that all of the following drugs may be used in the attempt to control the symptoms of Meniere’s disease except:

Antiemetics
Diuretics
Antihistamines
Glucocorticoids
45. Which of the following complications associated with tracheostomy tube?

Increased cardiac output
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
Increased blood pressure
Damage to laryngeal nerves
46. Nurse Faith should recognize that fluid shift in an client with burn injury results from increase in the:

Total volume of circulating whole blood
Total volume of intravascular plasma
Permeability of capillary walls
Permeability of kidney tubules
47. An 83-year-old woman has several ecchymotic areas on her right arm. The bruises are probably caused by:

increased capillary fragility and permeability
increased blood supply to the skin
self inflicted injury
elder abuse
48. Nurse Anna is aware that early adaptation of client with renal carcinoma is:

Nausea and vomiting
flank pain
weight gain
intermittent hematuria
49. A male client with tuberculosis asks Nurse Brian how long the chemotherapy must be continued. Nurse Brian’s accurate reply would be:

1 to 3 weeks
6 to 12 months
3 to 5 months
3 years and more
50. A client has undergone laryngectomy. The immediate nursing priority would be:

Keep trachea free of secretions
Monitor for signs of infection
Provide emotional support
Promote means of communication