Answer: (A) Inevitable. An inevitable abortion is termination of pregnancy that cannot be prevented. Moderate to severe bleeding with mild cramping and cervical dilation would be noted in this type of abortion.
Answer: (B) History of syphilis. Maternal infections such as syphilis, toxoplasmosis, and rubella are causes of spontaneous abortion.
Answer: (C) Monitoring apical pulse. Nursing care for the client with a possible ectopic pregnancy is focused on preventing or identifying hypovolemic shock and controlling pain. An elevated pulse rate is an indicator of shock.
Answer: (B) Increased caloric intake. Glucose crosses the placenta, but insulin does not. High fetal demands for glucose, combined with the insulin resistance caused by hormonal changes in the last half of pregnancy can result in elevation of maternal blood glucose levels. This increases the mother’s demand for insulin and is referred to as the diabetogenic effect of pregnancy.
Answer: (A) Excessive fetal activity. The most common signs and symptoms of hydatidiform mole includes elevated levels of human chorionic gonadotropin, vaginal bleeding, larger than normal uterus for gestational age, failure to detect fetal heart activity even with sensitive instruments, excessive nausea and vomiting, and early development of pregnancy-induced hypertension. Fetal activity would not be noted.
Answer: (B) Absent patellar reflexes. Absence of patellar reflexes is an indicator of hypermagnesemia, which requires administration of calcium gluconate.
Answer: (C) Presenting part in 2 cm below the plane of the ischial spines. Fetus at station plus two indicates that the presenting part is 2 cm below the plane of the ischial spines.
Answer: (A) Contractions every 1 ½ minutes lasting 70-80 seconds. Contractions every 1 ½ minutes lasting 70-80 seconds, is indicative of hyperstimulation of the uterus, which could result in injury to the mother and the fetus if Pitocin is not discontinued.
Answer: (C) EKG tracings. A potential side effect of calcium gluconate administration is cardiac arrest. Continuous monitoring of cardiac activity (EKG) throught administration of calcium gluconate is an essential part of care.
Answer: (D) First low transverse caesarean was for breech position. Fetus in this pregnancy is in a vertex presentation. This type of client has no obstetrical indication for a caesarean section as she did with her first caesarean delivery.
Answer: (A) Talk to the mother first and then to the toddler. When dealing with a crying toddler, the best approach is to talk to the mother and ignore the toddler first. This approach helps the toddler get used to the nurse before she attempts any procedures. It also gives the toddler an opportunity to see that the mother trusts the nurse.
Answer: (D) Place the infant’s arms in soft elbow restraints. Soft restraints from the upper arm to the wrist prevent the infant from touching her lip but allow him to hold a favorite item such as a blanket. Because they could damage the operative site, such as objects as pacifiers, suction catheters, and small spoons shouldn’t be placed in a baby’s mouth after cleft repair. A baby in a prone position may rub her face on the sheets and traumatize the operative site. The suture line should be cleaned gently to prevent infection, which could interfere with healing and damage the cosmetic appearance of the repair.
Answer: (B) Allow the infant to rest before feeding. Because feeding requires so much energy, an infant with heart failure should rest before feeding.
Answer: (C) Iron-rich formula only. The infants at age 5 months should receive iron-rich formula and that they shouldn’t receive solid food, even baby food until age 6 months.
Answer: (D) 10 months. A 10 month old infant can sit alone and understands object permanence, so he would look for the hidden toy. At age 4 to 6 months, infants can’t sit securely alone. At age 8 months, infants can sit securely alone but cannot understand the permanence of objects.
Answer: (D) Public health nursing focuses on preventive, not curative, services. The catchments area in PHN consists of a residential community, many of whom are well individuals who have greater need for preventive rather than curative services.
Answer: (B) Efficiency. Efficiency is determining whether the goals were attained at the least possible cost.
Answer: (D) Rural Health Unit. R.A. 7160 devolved basic health services to local government units (LGU’s ). The public health nurse is an employee of the LGU.
Answer: (A) Mayor. The local executive serves as the chairman of the Municipal Health Board.
Answer: (A) 1. Each rural health midwife is given a population assignment of about 5,000.