Answer: (B) Liver cirrhosis. The etiologic agent of schistosomiasis in the Philippines is Schistosoma japonicum, which affects the small intestine and the liver. Liver damage is a consequence of fibrotic reactions to schistosoma eggs in the liver.
Answer: (C) Proper use of sanitary toilets. The ova of the parasite get out of the human body together with feces. Cutting the cycle at this stage is the most effective way of preventing the spread of the disease to susceptible hosts.
 Answer: (B) II. A communal faucet or water standpost is classified as Level II.
Answer: (A) Use of sterile syringes and needles. Hepatitis A is transmitted through the fecal oral route. Hepatitis B is transmitted through infected body secretions like blood and semen.
 Answer: (A) DPT. DPT is sensitive to freezing. The appropriate storage temperature of DPT is 2 to 8° C only. OPV and measles vaccine are highly sensitive to heat and require freezing. MMR is not an immunization in the Expanded Program on Immunization.
Answer: (A) 45. To estimate the number of infants, multiply total population by 3%.
Answer: (B) Severe dehydration. The order of priority in the management of severe dehydration is as follows: intravenous fluid therapy, referral to a facility where IV fluids can be initiated within 30 minutes, Oresol/nasogastric tube, Oresol/orem. When the foregoing measures are not possible or effective, tehn urgent referral to the hospital is done.
Answer: (A) 3. Adequate blood supply to the area allows the return of the color of the nailbed within 3 seconds.
Answer: (B) Instruct the mother to give the child Oresol. Since the child does not manifest any other danger sign, maintenance of fluid balance and replacement of fluid loss may be done by giving the client Oresol.
Answer: (B) Buccal mucosa. Koplik’s spot may be seen on the mucosa of the mouth or the throat.
Answer: (D) Measles. Viral conjunctivitis is transmitted by direct or indirect contact with discharges from infected eyes. Acute poliomyelitis is spread through the fecal-oral route and contact with throat secretions, whereas diphtheria is through direct and indirect contact with respiratory secretions.
Answer: (A) Hemophilus influenzae. Hemophilus meningitis is unusual over the age of 5 years. In developing countries, the peak incidence is in children less than 6 months of age. Morbillivirus is the etiology of measles. Streptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis may cause meningitis, but age distribution is not specific in young children.
Answer: (D) Zooprophylaxis. Zooprophylaxis is done by putting animals like cattle or dogs close to windows or doorways just before nightfall. The Anopheles mosquito takes his blood meal from the animal and goes back to its breeding place, thereby preventing infection of humans.
Answer: (A) Stream seeding. Stream seeding is done by putting tilapia fry in streams or other bodies of water identified as breeding places of the Anopheles mosquito
Answer: (C) Destruction of breeding places of the mosquito vector. Anopheles mosquitoes breed in slow-moving, clear water, such as mountain streams.
Answer: (B) Cholera. Passage of profuse watery stools is the major symptom of cholera. Both amebic and bacillary dysentery are characterized by the presence of blood and/or mucus in the stools. Giardiasis is characterized by fat malabsorption and, therefore, steatorrhea.
Answer: (B) S. japonicum. S. mansoni is found mostly in Africa and South America; S. haematobium in Africa and the Middle East; and S. malayensis only in peninsular Malaysia.
Answer: (D) Leptospirosis. Leptospirosis is transmitted through contact with the skin or mucous membrane with water or moist soil contaminated with urine of infected animals, like rats.
Answer: (C) III. Waterworks systems, such as MWSS, are classified as level III.
Answer: (D) Refer the client for a supplementary test, such as Western blot, since the ELISA result may be false. A client having a reactive ELISA result must undergo a more specific test, such as Western blot. A negative supplementary test result means that the ELISA result was false and that, most probably, the client is not infected.
Answer: (A) Being faithful to a single sexual partner. Sexual fidelity rules out the possibility of getting the disease by sexual contact with another infected person. Transmission occurs mostly through sexual intercourse and exposure to blood or tissues.
Answer: (B) Infectious mononucleosis. Cytomegalovirus disease is an acute viral disease characterized by fever, sore throat and lymphadenopathy.
Answer: (A) Contact tracing. Contact tracing is the most practical and reliable method of finding possible sources of person-to-person transmitted infections, such as sexually transmitted diseases.
Answer: (D) They are able to bring about a cure of the disease condition. There is no known treatment for AIDS. Antiretroviral agents reduce the risk of opportunistic infections and prolong life, but does not cure the underlying immunodeficiency.
Answer: (D) Consult a physician who may give them rubella immunoglobulin. Rubella vaccine is made up of attenuated German measles viruses. This is contraindicated in pregnancy. Immune globulin, a specific prophylactic against German measles, may be given to pregnant women.
Answer: (D) Proper handwashing during food preparation is the best way of preventing the condition. Symptoms of this food poisoning are due to staphylococcal enterotoxin, not the microorganisms themselves. Contamination is by food handling by persons with staphylococcal skin or eye infections.
Answer: (A) The older one gets, the more susceptible he becomes to the complications of chicken pox. Chicken pox is usually more severe in adults than in children. Complications, such as pneumonia, are higher in incidence in adults.
Answer: (C) Young adult males. Epididymitis and orchitis are possible complications of mumps. In post-adolescent males, bilateral inflammation of the testes and epididymis may cause sterility.