Answer: (B) Health education and community organizing are necessary in providing community health services. The community health nurse develops the health capability of people through health education and community organizing activities.
Answer: (B) Measles. Presidential Proclamation No. 4 is on the Ligtas Tigdas Program.
Answer: (D) Core group formation. In core group formation, the nurse is able to transfer the technology of community organizing to the potential or informal community leaders through a training program.
Answer: (D) To maximize the community’s resources in dealing with health problems. Community organizing is a developmental service, with the goal of developing the people’s self-reliance in dealing with community health problems. A, B and C are objectives of contributory objectives to this goal.
Answer: (D) Terminal. Tertiary prevention involves rehabilitation, prevention of permanent disability and disability limitation appropriate for convalescents, the disabled, complicated cases and the terminally ill (those in the terminal stage of a disease).
Answer: (A) Intrauterine fetal death. Intrauterine fetal death, abruptio placentae, septic shock, and amniotic fluid embolism may trigger normal clotting mechanisms; if clotting factors are depleted, DIC may occur. Placenta accreta, dysfunctional labor, and premature rupture of the membranes aren’t associated with DIC.
Answer: (C) 120 to 160 beats/minute. A rate of 120 to 160 beats/minute in the fetal heart appropriate for filling the heart with blood and pumping it out to the system.
Answer: (A) Change the diaper more often. Decreasing the amount of time the skin comes contact with wet soiled diapers will help heal the irritation.
Answer: (D) Endocardial cushion defect. Endocardial cushion defects are seen most in children with Down syndrome, asplenia, or polysplenia.
Answer: (B) Decreased urine output. Decreased urine output may occur in clients receiving I.V. magnesium and should be monitored closely to keep urine output at greater than 30 ml/hour, because magnesium is excreted through the kidneys and can easily accumulate to toxic levels.
Answer: (A) Menorrhagia. Menorrhagia is an excessive menstrual period.
Answer: (C) Blood typing. Blood type would be a critical value to have because the risk of blood loss is always a potential complication during the labor and delivery process. Approximately 40% of a woman’s cardiac output is delivered to the uterus, therefore, blood loss can occur quite rapidly in the event of uncontrolled bleeding.
Answer: (D) Physiologic anemia. Hemoglobin values and hematocrit decrease during pregnancy as the increase in plasma volume exceeds the increase in red blood cell production.
Answer: (D) A 2 year old infant with stridorous breath sounds, sitting up in his mother’s arms and drooling. The infant with the airway emergency should be treated first, because of the risk of epiglottitis.
Answer: (A) Placenta previa. Placenta previa with painless vaginal bleeding.
Answer: (D) Early in the morning. Based on the nurse’s knowledge of microbiology, the specimen should be collected early in the morning. The rationale for this timing is that, because the female worm lays eggs at night around the perineal area, the first bowel movement of the day will yield the best results. The specific type of stool specimen used in the diagnosis of pinworms is called the tape test.
Answer: (A) Irritability and seizures. Lead poisoning primarily affects the CNS, causing increased intracranial pressure. This condition results in irritability and changes in level of consciousness, as well as seizure disorders, hyperactivity, and learning disabilities.
Answer: (D) “I really need to use the diaphragm and jelly most during the middle of my menstrual cycle”. The woman must understand that, although the “fertile” period is approximately mid-cycle, hormonal variations do occur and can result in early or late ovulation. To be effective, the diaphragm should be inserted before every intercourse.
Answer: (C) Restlessness. In a child, restlessness is the earliest sign of hypoxia. Late signs of hypoxia in a child are associated with a change in color, such as pallor or cyanosis.
Answer: (B) Walk one step ahead, with the child’s hand on the nurse’s elbow. This procedure is generally recommended to follow in guiding a person who is blind.