Answer: (A) Loud, machinery-like murmur. A loud, machinery-like murmur is a characteristic finding associated with patent ductus arteriosus.
Answer: (C) More oxygen, and the newborn’s metabolic rate increases. When cold, the infant requires more oxygen and there is an increase in metabolic rate. Non-shievering thermogenesis is a complex process that increases the metabolic rate and rate of oxygen consumption, therefore, the newborn increase heat production.
Answer: (D) Voided. Before administering potassium I.V. to any client, the nurse must first check that the client’s kidneys are functioning and that the client is voiding. If the client is not voiding, the nurse should withhold the  potassium and notify the physician.
Answer: (C) Laundry detergent. Eczema or dermatitis is an allergic skin reaction caused by an offending allergen. The topical allergen that is the most common causative factor is laundry detergent.
Answer: (A) 6 inches. This distance allows for easy flow of the formula by gravity, but the flow will be slow enough not to overload the stomach too rapidly.
Answer: (A) The older one gets, the more susceptible he becomes to the complications of chicken pox. Chicken pox is usually more severe in adults than in children. Complications, such as pneumonia, are higher in incidence in adults.
Answer: (D) Consult a physician who may give them rubella immunoglobulin. Rubella vaccine is made up of attenuated German measles viruses. This is contraindicated in pregnancy. Immune globulin, a specific prophylactic against German measles, may be given to pregnant women.
Answer: (A) Contact tracing. Contact tracing is the most practical and reliable method of finding possible sources of person-to-person transmitted infections, such as sexually transmitted diseases.
Answer: (D) Leptospirosis. Leptospirosis is transmitted through contact with the skin or mucous membrane with water or moist soil contaminated with urine of infected animals, like rats.
Answer: (B) Cholera. Passage of profuse watery stools is the major symptom of cholera. Both amebic and bacillary dysentery are characterized by the presence of blood and/or mucus in the stools. Giardiasis is characterized by fat malabsorption and, therefore, steatorrhea.
Answer: (A) Hemophilus influenzae. Hemophilus meningitis is unusual over the age of 5 years. In developing countries, the peak incidence is in children less than 6 months of age. Morbillivirus is the etiology of measles. Streptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis may cause meningitis, but age distribution is not specific in young children.
Answer: (B) Buccal mucosa. Koplik’s spot may be seen on the mucosa of the mouth or the throat.
Answer: (A) 3 seconds. Adequate blood supply to the area allows the return of the color of the nailbed within 3 seconds.
Answer: (B) Severe dehydration. The order of priority in the management of severe dehydration is as follows: intravenous fluid therapy, referral to a facility where IV fluids can be initiated within 30 minutes, Oresol or nasogastric tube. When the foregoing measures are not possible or effective, then urgent referral to the hospital is done.
Answer: (A) 45 infants. To estimate the number of infants, multiply total population by 3%.
Answer: (A) DPT. DPT is sensitive to freezing. The appropriate storage temperature of DPT is 2 to 8° C only. OPV and measles vaccine are highly sensitive to heat and require freezing. MMR is not an immunization in the Expanded Program on Immunization.
Answer: (C) Proper use of sanitary toilets. The ova of the parasite get out of the human body together with feces. Cutting the cycle at this stage is the most effective way of preventing the spread of the disease to susceptible hosts.
Answer: (D) 5 skin lesions, positive slit skin smear. A multibacillary leprosy case is one who has a positive slit skin smear and at least 5 skin lesions.
Answer: (C) Thickened painful nerves. The lesion of leprosy is not macular. It is characterized by a change in skin color (either reddish or whitish) and loss of sensation, sweating and hair growth over the lesion. Inability to close the eyelids (lagophthalmos) and sinking of the nosebridge are late symptoms.
Answer: (B) Ask where the family resides. Because malaria is endemic, the first question to determine malaria risk is where the client’s family resides. If the area of residence is not a known endemic area, ask if the child had traveled within the past 6 months, where she was brought and whether she stayed overnight in that area.