Answer: (A) Inability to drink. A sick child aged 2 months to 5 years must be referred urgently to a hospital if he/she has one or more of the following signs: not able to feed or drink, vomits everything, convulsions, abnormally sleepy or difficult to awaken.
Answer: (A) Refer the child urgently to a hospital for confinement. “Baggy pants” is a sign of severe marasmus. The best management is urgent referral to a hospital.
Answer: (D) Let the child rest for 10 minutes then continue giving Oresol more slowly. If the child vomits persistently, that is, he vomits everything that he takes in, he has to be referred urgently to a hospital. Otherwise, vomiting is managed by letting the child rest for 10 minutes and then continuing with Oresol administration. Teach the mother to give Oresol more slowly.
Answer: (B) Some dehydration. Using the assessment guidelines of IMCI, a child (2 months to 5 years old) with diarrhea is classified as having SOME DEHYDRATION if he shows 2 or more of the following signs: restless or irritable, sunken eyes, the skin goes back slow after a skin pinch.
Answer: (C) Normal. In IMCI, a respiratory rate of 50/minute or more is fast breathing for an infant aged 2 to 12 months.
Answer: (A) 1 year. The baby will have passive natural immunity by placental transfer of antibodies. The mother will have active artificial immunity lasting for about 10 years. 5 doses will give the mother lifetime protection.
Answer: (B) 4 hours. While the unused portion of other biologicals in EPI may be given until the end of the day, only BCG is discarded 4 hours after reconstitution. This is why BCG immunization is scheduled only in the morning.
Answer: (B) 6 months. After 6 months, the baby’s nutrient needs, especially the baby’s iron requirement, can no longer be provided by mother’s milk alone.
Answer: (C) 24 weeks. At approximately 23 to 24 weeks’ gestation, the lungs are developed enough to sometimes maintain extrauterine life. The lungs are the most immature system during the gestation period. Medical care for premature labor begins much earlier (aggressively at 21 weeks’ gestation)
Answer: (B) Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Supine positioning is recommended to reduce the risk of SIDS in infancy. The risk of aspiration is slightly increased with the supine position. Suffocation would be less likely with an infant supine than prone and the position for GER requires the head of the bed to be elevated.
Answer: (C) Decreased temperature. Temperature instability, especially when it results in a low temperature in the neonate, may be a sign of infection. The neonate’s color often changes with an infection process but generally becomes ashen or mottled. The neonate with an infection will usually show a decrease in activity level or lethargy.
Answer: (D) Polycythemia probably due to chronic fetal hypoxia. The small-for-gestation neonate is at risk for developing polycythemia during the transitional period in an attempt to decreasehypoxia. The neonates are also at increased risk for developing hypoglycemia and hypothermia due to decreased glycogen stores.
Answer: (C) Desquamation of the epidermis. Postdate fetuses lose the vernix caseosa, and the epidermis may become desquamated. These neonates are usually very alert. Lanugo is missing in the postdate neonate.
Answer: (C) Respiratory depression. Magnesium sulfate crosses the placenta and adverse neonatal effects are respiratory depression, hypotonia, and bradycardia. The serum blood sugar isn’t affected by magnesium sulfate. The neonate would be floppy, not jittery.
Answer: (C) Respiratory rate 40 to 60 breaths/minute. A respiratory rate 40 to 60 breaths/minute is normal for a neonate during the transitional period. Nasal flaring, respiratory rate more than 60 breaths/minute, and audible grunting are signs of respiratory distress.
Answer: (C) Keep the cord dry and open to air. Keeping the cord dry and open to air helps reduce infection and hastens drying. Infants aren’t given tub bath but are sponged off until the cord falls off. Petroleum jelly prevents the cord from drying and encourages infection. Peroxide could be painful and isn’t recommended.
Answer: (B) Conjunctival hemorrhage. Conjunctival hemorrhages are commonly seen in neonates secondary to the cranial pressure applied during the birth process. Bulging fontanelles are a sign of intracranial pressure. Simian creases are present in 40% of the neonates with trisomy 21. Cystic hygroma is a neck mass that can affect the airway.
Answer: (B) To assess for prolapsed cord. After a client has an amniotomy, the nurse should assure that the cord isn’t prolapsed and that the baby tolerated the procedure well. The most effective way to do this is to check the fetal heart rate. Fetal well-being is assessed via a nonstress test. Fetal position is determined by vaginal examination. Artificial rupture of membranes doesn’t indicate an imminent delivery.
Answer: (D) The parents’ interactions with each other. Parental interaction will provide the nurse with a good assessment of the stability of the family’s home life but it has no indication for parental bonding. Willingness to touch and hold the newborn, expressing interest about the newborn’s size, and indicating a desire to see the newborn are behaviors indicating parental bonding.
Answer: (B) Instructing the client to use two or more peripads to cushion the area. Using two or more peripads would do little to reduce the pain or promote perineal healing. Cold applications, sitz baths, and Kegel exercises are important measures when the client has a fourth-degree laceration.