Answer: (B) To enhance the capacity of individuals, families and communities to cope with their health needs
Answer: (B) The nurse has to conduct community diagnosis to determine nursing needs and problems.
Answer: (C) Community diagnosis. Population-focused nursing care means providing care based on the greater need of the majority of the population. The greater need is identified through community diagnosis.
Answer: (B) Location of the workplace in relation to health facilities. Based on R.A. 1054, an occupational nurse must be employed when there are 30 to 100 employees and the workplace is more than 1 km. away from the nearest health center.
Answer: (B) 101. Again, this is based on R.A. 1054.
Answer: (D) Environmental manager. Ergonomics is improving efficiency of workers by improving the worker’s environment through appropriately designed furniture, for example.
Answer: (C) Public health nurse of the RHU of their municipality. You’re right! This question is based on R.A.1054.
Answer: (B) The statement is false; people pay indirectly for public health services. Community health services, including public health services, are pre-paid services, though taxation, for example.
Answer: (A) For people to attain their birthrights of health and longevity. According to Winslow, all public health efforts are for people to realize their birthrights of health and longevity.
Answer: (C) Swaroop’s index. Swaroop’s index is the percentage of the deaths aged 50 years or older. Its inverse represents the percentage of untimely deaths (those who died younger than 50 years).
Answer: (D) Public health nursing focuses on preventive, not curative, services.The catchment area in PHN consists of a residential community, many of whom are well individuals who have greater need for preventive rather than curative services.
Answer: (D) The worth and dignity of man. This is a direct quote from Dr. Margaret Shetland’s statements on Public Health Nursing.
Answer: (B) Ensure the accessibility and quality of health care
Answer: (D) Tertiary. Regional hospitals are tertiary facilities because they serve as training hospitals for the region.
Answer: (B) Their services are provided on an out-patient basis. Primary facilities government and non-government facilities that provide basic out-patient services.
Answer: (B) Conducting random classroom inspection during a measles epidemic. Random classroom inspection is assessment of pupils/students and teachers for signs of a health problem prevalent in the community.
Answer: (B) Efficiency. Efficiency is determining whether the goals were attained at the least possible cost.
Answer: (D) Rural Health Unit. R.A. 7160 devolved basic health services to local government units (LGU’s ). The public health nurse is an employee of the LGU.
Answer: (C) To empower the people and promote their self-reliance. People empowerment is the basic motivation behind devolution of basic services to LGU’s.
Answer: (A) Mayor. The local executive serves as the chairman of the Municipal Health Board.
Answer: (A) Primary. The entry of a person into the health care delivery system is usually through a consultation in out-patient services.
Answer: (B) Providing technical guidance to the midwife. The nurse provides technical guidance to the midwife in the care of clients, particularly in the implementation of management guidelines, as in Integrated Management of Childhood Illness.
Answer: (C) Municipal Health Officer. A public health nurse and rural health midwife can provide care during normal childbirth. A physician should attend to a woman with a complication during labor.
Answer: (A) 1. Each rural health midwife is given a population assignment of about 5,000.
Answer: (D) Municipal Health Board. As mandated by R.A. 7160, basic health services have been devolved from the national government to local government units.
Answer: (A) Act 3573. Act 3573, the Law on Reporting of Communicable Diseases, enacted in 1929, mandated the reporting of diseases listed in the law to the nearest health station.
Answer: (B) Health education and community organizing are necessary in providing community health services. The community health nurse develops the health capability of people through health education and community organizing activities.
Answer: (B) Measles. Presidential Proclamation No. 4 is on the Ligtas Tigdas Program.
Answer: (B) Bar. A bar graph is used to present comparison of values, a line graph for trends over time or age, a pie graph for population composition or distribution, and a scatter diagram for correlation of two variables.
Answer: (D) Core group formation. In core group formation, the nurse is able to transfer the technology of community organizing to the potential or informal community leaders through a training program.