Answer: (B) Community organization. Community organization is the step when community assemblies take place. During the community assembly, the people may opt to formalize the community organization and make plans for community action to resolve a community health problem.
Answer: (D) To maximize the community’s resources in dealing with health problems. Community organizing is a developmental service, with the goal of developing the people’s self-reliance in dealing with community health problems. A, B and C are objectives of contributory objectives to this goal.
Answer: (A) Participate in community activities for the solution of a community problem. Participation in community activities in resolving a community problem may be in any of the processes mentioned in the other choices.
Answer: (D) Terminal. Tertiary prevention involves rehabilitation, prevention of permanent disability and disability limitation appropriate for convalescents, the disabled, complicated cases and the terminally ill (those in the terminal stage of a disease)
Answer: (A) Primary. The purpose of isolating a client with a communicable disease is to protect those who are not sick (specific disease prevention).
Answer: (B) Secondary. Operation Timbang is done to identify members of the susceptible population who are malnourished. Its purpose is early diagnosis and, subsequently, prompt treatment.
Answer: (C) Home visit. Dynamics of family relationships can best be observed in the family’s natural environment, which is the home.
Answer: (B) Health deficit. Failure of a family member to develop according to what is expected, as in mental retardation, is a health deficit.
Answer: (C) Foreseeable crisis. Entry of the 6-year old into school is an anticipated period of unusual demand on the family.
Answer: (B) It provides an opportunity to do first hand appraisal of the home situation.. Choice A is not correct since a home visit requires that the nurse spend so much time with the family. Choice C is an advantage of a group conference, while choice D is true of a clinic consultation.
Answer: (C) A home visit should be conducted in the manner prescribed by the RHU.The home visit plan should be flexible and practical, depending on factors, such as the family’s needs and the resources available to the nurse and the family.
Answer: (B) Should minimize if not totally prevent the spread of infection. Bag technique is performed before and after handling a client in the home to prevent transmission of infection to and from the client.
Answer: (A) Wash his/her hands before and after providing nursing care to the family members. Choice B goes against the idea of utilizing the family’s resources, which is encouraged in CHN. Choices C and D goes against the principle of asepsis of confining the contaminated surface of objects.
Answer: (B) Analytical. Analytical epidemiology is the study of factors or determinants affecting the patterns of occurrence and distribution of disease in a community.
Answer: (D) Evaluating the effectiveness of the implementation of the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness. Epidemiology is used in the assessment of a community or evaluation of interventions in community health practice.
Answer: (C) Participating in the investigation to determine the source of the epidemic. Epidemiology is the study of patterns of occurrence and distribution of disease in the community, as well as the factors that affect disease patterns. The purpose of an epidemiologic investigation is to identify the source of an epidemic, i.e., what brought about the epidemic.
Answer: (A) Delineate the etiology of the epidemic. Delineating the etiology of an epidemic is identifying its source.
Answer: (D) There is a gradual build up of cases before the epidemic becomes easily noticeable. A gradual or insidious onset of the epidemic is usually observable in person-to-person propagated epidemics.
Answer: (A) Establishing the epidemic. Establishing the epidemic is determining whether there is an epidemic or not. This is done by comparing the present number of cases with the usual number of cases of the disease at the same time of the year, as well as establishing the relatedness of the cases of the disease.
Answer: (B) Cyclical variation. A cyclical variation is a periodic fluctuation in the number of cases of a disease in the community.
Answer: (C) Small pox. The last documented case of Small pox was in 1977 at Somalia.
Answer: (B) 100.94:100. Sex ratio is the number of males for every 100 females in the population.
Answer: (D) Health programs are sustained according to the level of development of the community. Primary health care is essential health care that can be sustained in all stages of development of the community.
Answer: (D) Sensitivity. Sensitivity is the capacity of a diagnostic examination to detect cases of the disease. If a test is 100% sensitive, all the cases tested will have a positive result, i.e., there will be no false negative results.
Answer: (D) Lagundi. Sambong is used as a diuretic. Tsaang gubat is used to relieve diarrhea. Akapulko is used for its antifungal property.
Answer: (A) R.A. 8423
Answer: (A) Yin. Yang is the male dominating, positive and masculine force.
Answer: (B) Letter of Instruction No. 949. Letter of Instruction 949 was issued by then President Ferdinand Marcos, directing the formerly called Ministry of Health, now the Department of Health, to utilize Primary Health Care approach in planning and implementing health programs.
Answer: (D) Cooperation between the PHN and public school teacher. Intersectoral linkages refer to working relationships between the health sector and other sectors involved in community development.
Answer: (D) 2,300. Based on the Philippine population composition, to estimate the number of 1-4 year old children, multiply total population by 11.5%.