Answer: (A) 265. To estimate the number of pregnant women, multiply the total population by 3.5%.
Answer: (D) Any of these may be used. Sex ratio and sex proportion are used to determine the sex composition of a population. A population pyramid is used to present the composition of a population by age and sex.
Answer: (A) Crude birth rate. Natality means birth. A natality rate is a birth rate.
Answer: (B) 5.2/1,000. To compute crude death rate divide total number of deaths (94) by total population (18,000) and multiply by 1,000.
Answer: (C) 1-4 year old children. Preschoolers are the most susceptible to PEM because they have generally been weaned. Also, this is the population who, unable to feed themselves, are often the victims of poor intrafamilial food distribution.
Answer: (C) Swaroop’s index. Swaroop’s index is the proportion of deaths aged 50 years and above. The higher the Swaroop’s index of a population, the greater the proportion of the deaths who were able to reach the age of at least 50 years, i.e., more people grew old before they died.
Answer: (B) 43.5/1,000. To compute for neonatal mortality rate, divide the number of babies who died before reaching the age of 28 days by the total number of live births, then multiply by 1,000.
Answer: (A) 1-4 year old age-specific mortality rate. Since preschoolers are the most susceptible to the effects of malnutrition, a population with poor nutritional status will most likely have a high 1-4 year old age-specific mortality rate, also known as child mortality rate.
Answer: (B) Number of registered live births. To compute for general or total fertility rate, divide the number of registered live births by the number of females of reproductive age (15-45 years), then multiply by 1,000.
Answer: (B) Survey. A survey, also called sample survey, is data gathering about a sample of the population.
Answer: (C) De facto. The other method of population assignment, de jure, is based on the usual place of residence of the people.
Answer: (A) Tally report. A tally report is prepared monthly or quarterly by the RHU personnel and transmitted to the Provincial Health Office.
Answer: (C) Target/client list. The MDT Client List is a record of clients enrolled in MDT and other relevant data, such as dates when clients collected their monthly supply of drugs.
Answer: (A) P.D. 651. P.D. 651 amended R.A. 3753, requiring the registry of births within 30 days from their occurrence.
Answer: (D) Any of these health professionals. D. R.A. 3753 states that any birth attendant may sign the certificate of live birth.
Answer: (C) Magnitude of the health problem. Magnitude of the problem refers to the percentage of the population affected by a health problem. The other choices are criteria considered in both family and community health care.
Answer: (D) Its main strategy is certification of health centers able to comply with standards. Sentrong Sigla Movement is a joint project of the DOH and local government units. Its main strategy is certification of health centers that are able to comply with standards set by the DOH.
Answer: (D) Those who just had a delivery within the past 15 months. The ideal birth spacing is at least two years. 15 months plus 9 months of pregnancy = 2 years.
Answer: (C) Adequate information for couples regarding the different methods. To enable the couple to choose freely among different methods of family planning, they must be given full information regarding the different methods that are available to them, considering the availability of quality services that can support their choice.
Answer: (B) Retinol 200,000 IU. Retinol 200,000 IU is a form of megadose Vitamin A. This may have a teratogenic effect.
Answer: (A) Her OB score is G5P3. Only women with less than 5 pregnancies are qualified for a home delivery. It is also advisable for a primigravida to have delivery at a childbirth facility.
Answer: (C) Folic acid. It is estimated that the incidence of neural tube defects can be reduced drastically if pregnant women have an adequate intake of folic acid.
Answer: (D) Note the interval, duration and intensity of labor contractions.. Assessment of the woman should be done first to determine whether she is having true labor and, if so, what stage of labor she is in.
Answer: (D) Explain to her that putting the baby to breast will lessen blood loss after delivery. Suckling of the nipple stimulates the release of oxytocin by the posterior pituitary gland, which causes uterine contraction. Lactation begins 1 to 3 days after delivery. Nipple stretching exercises are done when the nipples are flat or inverted. Frequent washing dries up the nipples, making them prone to the formation of fissures.
Answer: (B) To stimulate milk production by the mammary acini. Suckling of the nipple stimulates prolactin reflex (the release of prolactin by the anterior pituitary gland), which initiates lactation.
Answer: (B) The mother does not feel nipple pain.. When the baby has properly latched on to the breast, he takes deep, slow sucks; his mouth is wide open; and much of the areola is inside his mouth. And, you’re right! The mother does not feel nipple pain.
Answer: (B) 6 months. After 6 months, the baby’s nutrient needs, especially the baby’s iron requirement, can no longer be provided by mother’s milk alone.
Answer: (C) Retinol 200,000 I.U., 1 capsule. A capsule of Retinol 200,000 IU is given within 1 month after delivery. Potassium iodate is given during pregnancy; malunggay capsule is not routinely administered after delivery; and ferrous sulfate is taken for two months after delivery.
Answer: (C) Measles vaccine. Among the biologicals used in the Expanded Program on Immunization, measles vaccine and OPV are highly sensitive to heat, requiring storage in the freezer.
Answer: (B) 4. While the unused portion of other biologicals in EPI may be given until the end of the day, only BCG is discarded 4 hours after reconstitution. This is why BCG immunization is scheduled only in the morning.