Answer: (A) P.D. 996. Presidential Decree 996, enacted in 1976, made immunization in the EPI compulsory for children under 8 years of age. Hepatitis B vaccination was made compulsory for the same age group by R.A. 7846.
Answer: (B) BCG. BCG causes the formation of a superficial abscess, which begins 2 weeks after immunization. The abscess heals without treatment, with the formation of a permanent scar.
Answer: (C) Infant BCG. Infant BCG may be given at birth. All the other immunizations mentioned can be given at 6 weeks of age.
Answer: (A) Seizures a day after DPT 1. Seizures within 3 days after administration of DPT is an indication of hypersensitivity to pertussis vaccine, a component of DPT. This is considered a specific contraindication to subsequent doses of DPT.
Answer: (A) Go on with the infant’s immunizations. In the EPI, fever up to 38.5°C is not a contraindication to immunization. Mild acute respiratory tract infection, simple diarrhea and malnutrition are not contraindications either.
Answer: (A) 1 year. The baby will have passive natural immunity by placental transfer of antibodies. The mother will have active artificial immunity lasting for about 10 years. 5 doses will give the mother lifetime protection.
Answer: (C) Normal. In IMCI, a respiratory rate of 50/minute or more is fast breathing for an infant aged 2 to 12 months.
Answer: (D) Chest indrawing. In IMCI, chest indrawing is used as the positive sign of dyspnea, indicating severe pneumonia.
Answer: (B) Refer him urgently to the hospital. Severe pneumonia requires urgent referral to a hospital. Answers A, C and D are done for a client classified as having pneumonia.
Answer: (B) Some dehydration. Using the assessment guidelines of IMCI, a child (2 months to 5 years old) with diarrhea is classified as having SOME DEHYDRATION if he shows 2 or more of the following signs: restless or irritable, sunken eyes, the skin goes back slow after a skin pinch.
Answer: (B) Supervise the mother in giving 200 to 400 ml. of Oresol in 4 hours. In the IMCI management guidelines, SOME DEHYDRATION is treated with the administration of Oresol within a period of 4 hours. The amount of Oresol is best computed on the basis of the child’s weight (75 ml/kg body weight). If the weight is unknown, the amount of Oresol is based on the child’s age.
Answer: (D) Let the child rest for 10 minutes then continue giving Oresol more slowly. If the child vomits persistently, that is, he vomits everything that he takes in, he has to be referred urgently to a hospital. Otherwise, vomiting is managed by letting the child rest for 10 minutes and then continuing with Oresol administration. Teach the mother to give Oresol more slowly.
Answer: (D) Edema. Edema, a major sign of kwashiorkor, is caused by decreased colloidal osmotic pressure of the blood brought about by hypoalbuminemia. Decreased blood albumin level is due a protein-deficient diet.
Answer: (A) Refer the child urgently to a hospital for confinement. “Baggy pants” is a sign of severe marasmus. The best management is urgent referral to a hospital.
Answer: (D) Conjunctival xerosis. The earliest sign of Vitamin A deficiency (xerophthalmia) is night blindness. However, this is a functional change, which is not observable during physical examination.The earliest visible lesion is conjunctival xerosis or dullness of the conjunctiva due to inadequate tear production.
Answer: (D) 200,000 IU. Preschoolers are given Retinol 200,000 IU every 6 months. 100,000 IU is given once to infants aged 6 to 12 months. The dose for pregnant women is 10,000 IU.
Answer: (A) Palms. The anatomic characteristics of the palms allow a reliable and convenient basis for examination for pallor.
Answer: (A) Sugar. R.A. 8976 mandates fortification of rice, wheat flour, sugar and cooking oil with Vitamin A, iron and/or iodine.
Answer: (A) Give measles vaccine to babies aged 6 to 8 months. Ordinarily, measles vaccine is given at 9 months of age. During an impending epidemic, however, one dose may be given to babies aged 6 to 8 months. The mother is instructed that the baby needs another dose when the baby is 9 months old.
Answer: (A) Inability to drink. A sick child aged 2 months to 5 years must be referred urgently to a hospital if he/she has one or more of the following signs: not able to feed or drink, vomits everything, convulsions, abnormally sleepy or difficult to awaken.
Answer: (D) Retinol capsule regardless of when the last dose was given. An infant 6 to 12 months classified as a case of measles is given Retinol 100,000 IU; a child is given 200,000 IU regardless of when the last dose was given.
Answer: (B) Ask where the family resides. Because malaria is endemic, the first question to determine malaria risk is where the client’s family resides. If the area of residence is not a known endemic area, ask if the child had traveled within the past 6 months, where he/she was brought and whether he/she stayed overnight in that area.
Answer: (B) Destroying breeding places of mosquitoes. Aedes aegypti, the vector of Dengue fever, breeds in stagnant, clear water. Its feeding time is usually during the daytime. It has a cyclical pattern of occurrence, unlike malaria which is endemic in certain parts of the country.
Answer: (C) Determining whether a place is endemic or not. This is diagnostic and therefore secondary level prevention. The other choices are for primary prevention.
Answer: (B) Pinworm. Pinworm ova are deposited around the anal orifice.
Answer: (C) Cough for 3 weeks. A client is considered a PTB suspect when he has cough for 2 weeks or more, plus one or more of the following signs: fever for 1 month or more; chest pain lasting for 2 weeks or more not attributed to other conditions; progressive, unexplained weight loss; night sweats; and hemoptysis.
Answer: (D) Clients diagnosed for the first time through a positive sputum exam. Category I is for new clients diagnosed by sputum examination and clients diagnosed to have a serious form of extrapulmonary tuberculosis, such as TB osteomyelitis.
Answer: (B) Having the health worker or a responsible family member monitor drug intake. Directly Observed Treatment Short Course is so-called because a treatment partner, preferably a health worker accessible to the client, monitors the client’s compliance to the treatment.
Answer: (C) Thickened painful nerves. The lesion of leprosy is not macular. It is characterized by a change in skin color (either reddish or whitish) and loss of sensation, sweating and hair growth over the lesion. Inability to close the eyelids (lagophthalmos) and sinking of the nosebridge are late symptoms.
Answer: (D) 5 skin lesions, positive slit skin smear. A multibacillary leprosy case is one who has a positive slit skin smear and at least 5 skin lesions.