Answer: (C) Loose, bloody. Normal bowel function and soft-formed stool usually do not occur until around the seventh day following surgery. The stool consistency is related to how much water is being absorbed.
Answer: (A) On the client’s right side. The client has left visual field blindness. The client will see only from the right side.
Answer: (C) Check respirations, stabilize spine, and check circulation. Checking the airway would be priority, and a neck injury should be suspected.
Answer: (D) Decreasing venous return through vasodilation. The significant effect of nitroglycerin is vasodilation and decreased venous return, so the heart does not have to work hard.
Answer: (A) Call for help and note the time. Having established, by stimulating the client, that the client is unconscious rather than sleep, the nurse should immediately call for help. This may be done by dialing the operator from the client’s phone and giving the hospital code for cardiac arrest and the client’s room number to the operator, of if the phone is not available, by pulling the emergency call button. Noting the time is important baseline information for cardiac arrest procedure.
Answer: (C) Make sure that the client takes food and medications at prescribed intervals. Food and drug therapy will prevent the accumulation of hydrochloric acid, or will neutralize and buffer the acid that does accumulate.
Answer: (B) Continue treatment as ordered. The effects of heparin are monitored by the PTT is normally 30 to 45 seconds; the therapeutic level is 1.5 to 2 times the normal level.
Answer: (B) In the operating room. The stoma drainage bag is applied in the operating room. Drainage from the ileostomy contains secretions that are rich in digestive enzymes and highly irritating to the skin. Protection of the skin from the effects of these enzymes is begun at once. Skin exposed to these enzymes even for a short time becomes reddened, painful, and excoriated.
Answer: (B) Flat on back. To avoid the complication of a painful spinal headache that can last for several days, the client is kept in flat in a supine position for approximately 4 to 12 hours postoperatively. Headaches are believed to be causes by the seepage of cerebral spinal fluid from the puncture site. By keeping the client flat, cerebral spinal fluid pressures are equalized, which avoids trauma to the neurons.
Answer: (C) The client is oriented when aroused from sleep, and goes back to sleep immediately. This finding suggest that the level of consciousness is decreasing.
Answer: (A) Altered mental status and dehydration. Fever, chills, hemortysis, dyspnea, cough, and pleuritic chest pain are the common symptoms of pneumonia, but elderly clients may first appear with only an altered lentil status and dehydration due to a blunted immune response.
Answer: (B) Chills, fever, night sweats, and hemoptysis. Typical signs and symptoms are chills, fever, night sweats, and hemoptysis. Chest pain may be present from coughing, but isn’t usual. Clients with TB typically have low-grade fevers, not higher than 102°F (38.9°C). Nausea, headache, and photophobia aren’t usual TB symptoms.
Answer:(A) Acute asthma. Based on the client’s history and symptoms, acute asthma is the most likely diagnosis. He’s unlikely to have bronchial pneumonia without a productive cough and fever and he’s too young to have developed (COPD) and emphysema.
Answer: (B) Respiratory arrest. Narcotics can cause respiratory arrest if given in large quantities. It’s unlikely the client will have asthma attack or a seizure or wake up on his own.
Answer: (D) Decreased vital capacity.  Reduction in vital capacity is a normal physiologic changes include decreased elastic recoil of the lungs, fewer functional capillaries in the alveoli, and an increased in residual volume.
Answer: (C) Presence of premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) on a cardiac monitor. Lidocaine drips are commonly used to treat clients whose arrhythmias haven’t been controlled with oral medication and who are having PVCs that are visible on the cardiac monitor. SaO2, blood pressure, and ICP are important factors but aren’t as significant as PVCs in the situation.
Answer: (B) Avoid foods high in vitamin K. The client should avoid consuming large amounts of vitamin K because vitamin K can interfere with anticoagulation. The client may need to report diarrhea, but isn’t effect of taking an anticoagulant. An electric razor-not a straight razor-should be used to prevent cuts that cause bleeding. Aspirin may increase the risk of bleeding; acetaminophen should be used to pain relief.
Answer: (C) Clipping the hair in the area. Hair can be a source of infection and should be removed by clipping. Shaving the area can cause skin abrasions and depilatories can irritate the skin.
Answer: (A) Bone fracture. Bone fracture is a major complication of osteoporosis that results when loss of calcium and phosphate increased the fragility of bones. Estrogen deficiencies result from menopause-not osteoporosis. Calcium and vitamin D supplements may be used to support normal bone metabolism, But a negative calcium balance isn’t a complication of osteoporosis. Dowager’s hump results from bone fractures. It develops when repeated vertebral fractures increase spinal curvature.
Answer: (C) Changes from previous examinations. Women are instructed to examine themselves to discover changes that have occurred in the breast. Only a physician can diagnose lumps that are cancerous, areas of thickness or fullness that signal the presence of a malignancy, or masses that are fibrocystic as opposed to malignant.
Answer: (C) Balance the client’s periods of activity and rest. A client with hyperthyroidism needs to be encouraged to balance periods of activity and rest. Many clients with hyperthyroidism are hyperactive and complain of feeling very warm.
Answer: (B) Increase his activity level. The client should be encouraged to increase his activity level. Maintaining an ideal weight; following a low-cholesterol, low sodium diet; and avoiding stress are all important factors in decreasing the risk of atherosclerosis.
Answer: (A) Laminectomy. The client who has had spinal surgery, such as laminectomy, must be log rolled to keep the spinal column straight when turning. Thoracotomy and cystectomy may turn themselves or may be assisted into a comfortable position. Under normal circumstances, hemorrhoidectomy is an outpatient procedure, and the client may resume normal activities immediately after surgery.
Answer: (D) Avoiding straining during bowel movement or bending at the waist. The client should avoid straining, lifting heavy objects, and coughing harshly because these activities increase intraocular pressure. Typically, the client is instructed to avoid lifting objects weighing more than 15 lb (7kg) – not 5lb. instruct the client when lying in bed to lie on either the side or back. The client should avoid bright light by wearing sunglasses.
Answer: (D) Before age 20. Testicular cancer commonly occurs in men between ages 20 and 30. A male client should be taught how to perform testicular selfexamination before age 20, preferably when he enters his teens.