Answer: (B) Place a saline-soaked sterile dressing on the wound. The nurse should first place saline-soaked sterile dressings on the open wound to prevent tissue drying and possible infection. Then the nurse should call the physician and take the client’s vital signs. The dehiscence needs to be surgically closed, so the nurse should never try to close it.
Answer: (A) A progressively deeper breaths followed by shallower breaths with apneic periods. Cheyne-Strokes respirations are breaths that become progressively deeper fallowed by shallower respirations with apneas periods. Biot’s respirations are rapid, deep breathing with abrupt pauses between each breath, and equal depth between each breath. Kussmaul’s respirations are rapid, deep breathing without pauses. Tachypnea is shallow breathing with increased respiratory rate.
Answer: (B) Fine crackles. Fine crackles are caused by fluid in the alveoli and commonly occur in clients with heart failure. Tracheal breath sounds are auscultated over the trachea. Coarse crackles are caused by secretion accumulation in the airways. Friction rubs occur with pleural inflammation.
Answer: (B) The airways are so swollen that no air cannot get through. During an acute attack, wheezing may stop and breath sounds become inaudible because the airways are so swollen that air can’t get through. If the attack is over and swelling has decreased, there would be no more wheezing and less emergent concern. Crackles do not replace wheezes during an acute asthma attack.
Answer: (D) Place the client on his side, remove dangerous objects, and protect his head. During the active seizure phase, initiate precautions by placing the client on his side, removing dangerous objects, and protecting his head from injury. A bite block should never be inserted during the active seizure phase. Insertion can break the teeth and lead to aspiration.
Answer: (B) Kinked or obstructed chest tube. Kinking and blockage of the chest tube is a common cause of a tension pneumothorax. Infection and excessive drainage won’t cause a tension pneumothorax. Excessive water won’t affect the chest tube drainage.
Answer: (D) Stay with him but not intervene at this time. If the client is coughing, he should be able to dislodge the object or cause a complete obstruction. If complete obstruction occurs, the nurse should perform the abdominal thrust maneuver with the client standing. If the client is unconscious, she should lay him down. A nurse should never leave a choking client alone.
Answer: (B) Current health promotion activities. Recognizing an individual’s positive health measures is very useful. General health in the previous 10 years is important, however, the current activities of an 84 year old client are most significant in planning care. Family history of disease for a client in later years is of minor significance. Marital status information may be important for discharge planning but is not as significant for addressing the immediate medical problem.
Answer: (C) Place the client in a side lying position, with the head of the bed lowered.  The client should be positioned in a side-lying position with the head of the bed lowered to prevent aspiration. A small amount of toothpaste should be used and the mouth swabbed or suctioned to remove pooled secretions. Lemon glycerin can be drying if used for extended periods. Brushing the teeth with the client lying supine may lead to aspiration. Hydrogen peroxide is caustic to tissues and should not be used.
Answer: (C) Pneumonia. Fever productive cough and pleuritic chest pain are common signs and symptoms of pneumonia. The client with ARDS has dyspnea and hypoxia with worsening hypoxia over time, if not treated aggressively. Pleuritic chest pain varies with respiration, unlike the constant chest pain during an MI; so this client most likely isn’t having an MI. the client with TB typically has a cough producing blood-tinged sputum. A sputum culture should be obtained to confirm the nurse’s suspicions.
Answer: (C) A 43-yesr-old homeless man with a history of alcoholism. Clients who are economically disadvantaged, malnourished, and have reduced immunity, such as a client with a history of alcoholism,  are at extremely high risk for developing TB. A high school student, daycare worker, and businessman probably have a much low risk of contracting TB.
Answer: (C ) To determine the extent of lesions. If the lesions are large enough, the chest X-ray will show their presence in the lungs. Sputum culture confirms the diagnosis. There can be false-positive and false-negative skin test results. A chest X-ray can’t determine if this is a primary or secondary infection.
Answer: (B) Bronchodilators. Bronchodilators are the first line of treatment for asthma because broncho-constriction is the cause of reduced airflow. Beta adrenergic blockers aren’t used to treat asthma and can cause bronchoconstriction. Inhaled oral steroids may be given to reduce the inflammation but aren’t used for emergency relief.
Answer: (C) Chronic obstructive bronchitis. Because of this extensive smoking history and symptoms the client most likely has chronic obstructive bronchitis. Client with ARDS have acute symptoms of hypoxia and typically need large amounts of oxygen. Clients with asthma and emphysema tend not to have chronic cough or peripheral edema.
Answer: (A) The patient is under local anesthesia during the procedure. Before the procedure, the patient is administered with drugs that would help to prevent infection and rejection of the transplanted cells such as antibiotics, cytotoxic, and corticosteroids. During the transplant, the patient is placed under general anesthesia.
Answer: (D) Raise the side rails. A patient who is disoriented is at risk of falling out of bed. The initial action of the nurse should be raising the side rails to ensure patients safety.
Answer: (A) Crowd red blood cells. The excessive production of white blood cells crowd out red blood cells production which causes anemia to occur.
Answer: (B) Leukocytosis. Chronic Lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by increased production of leukocytes and lymphocytes resulting in leukocytosis, and proliferation of these cells within the bone marrow, spleen and liver.
Answer: (A) Explain the risks of not having the surgery. The best initial response is to explain the risks of not having the surgery. If the client understands the risks but still refuses the nurse should notify the physician and the nurse supervisor and then record the client’s refusal in the nurses’ notes.
Answer: (D) The 75-year-old client who was admitted 1 hour ago with new-onset atrial fibrillation and is receiving L.V. dilitiazem (Cardizem). The client with atrial fibrillation has the greatest potential to become unstable and is on L.V. medication that requires close monitoring. After assessing this client, the nurse should assess the client with thrombophlebitis who is receiving a heparin infusion, and then the 58- year-old client admitted 2 days ago with heart failure (his signs and symptoms are resolving and don’t require immediate attention). The lowest priority is the 89-year-old with end stage right-sided heart failure, who requires time-consuming supportive measures.
Answer: (C) Cocaine. Because of the client’s age and negative medical history, the nurse should question her about cocaine use. Cocaine increases myocardial oxygen consumption and can cause coronary artery spasm, leading to tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, myocardial ischemia, and myocardial infarction. Barbiturate overdose may trigger respiratory depression and slow pulse. Opioids can cause marked respiratory depression, while benzodiazepines can cause drowsiness and confusion.
Answer: (B) Nonmobile mass with irregular edges. Breast cancer tumors are fixed, hard, and poorly delineated with irregular edges. A mobile mass that is soft and easily delineated is most often a fluid-filled benign cyst. Axillary lymph nodes may or may not be palpable on initial detection of a cancerous mass. Nipple retraction — not eversion — may be a sign of cancer.
Answer: (C) Radiation. The usual treatment for vaginal cancer is external or intravaginal radiation therapy. Less often, surgery is performed. Chemotherapy typically is prescribed only if vaginal cancer is diagnosed in an early stage, which is rare. Immunotherapy isn’t used to treat vaginal cancer.
Answer: (B) Carcinoma in situ, no abnormal regional lymph nodes, and no evidence of distant metastasis. TIS, N0, M0 denotes carcinoma in situ, no abnormal regional lymph nodes, and no evidence of distant metastasis. No evidence of primary tumor, no abnormal regional lymph nodes, and no evidence of distant metastasis is classified as T0, N0, M0. If the tumor and regional lymph nodes can’t be assessed and no evidence of metastasis exists, the lesion is classified as TX, NX, M0. A progressive increase in tumor size, no demonstrable metastasis of the regional lymph nodes, and ascending degrees of distant metastasis is classified as T1, T2, T3, or T4; N0; and M1, M2, or M3.
Answer: (D) “Keep the stoma moist.” The nurse should instruct the client to keep the stoma moist, such as by applying a thin layer of petroleum jelly around the edges, because a dry stoma may become irritated. The nurse should recommend placing a stoma bib over the stoma to filter and warm air before it enters the stoma. The client should begin performing stoma care without assistance as soon as possible to gain independence in self-care activities.