Answer: (A) Hypocalcemia. Hypocalcemia may follow thyroid surgery if the parathyroid glands were removed accidentally. Signs and symptoms of hypocalcemia may be delayed for up to 7 days after surgery. Thyroid surgery doesn’t directly cause serum sodium, potassium, or magnesium abnormalities. Hyponatremia may occur if the client inadvertently received too much fluid; however, this can happen to any surgical client receiving I.V. fluid therapy, not just one recovering from thyroid surgery. Hyperkalemia and hypermagnesemia usually are associated with reduced renal excretion of potassium and magnesium, not thyroid surgery.
Answer: (D) Carcinoembryonic antigen level. In clients who smoke, the level of carcinoembryonic antigen is elevated. Therefore, it can’t be used as a general indicator of cancer. However, it is helpful in monitoring cancer treatment because the level usually falls to normal within 1 month if treatment is successful. An elevated acid phosphatase level may indicate prostate cancer. An elevated alkaline phosphatase level may reflect bone metastasis. An elevated serum calcitonin level usually signals thyroid cancer.
Answer: (B) Dyspnea, tachycardia, and pallor. Signs of iron-deficiency anemia include dyspnea, tachycardia, and pallor as well as fatigue, listlessness, irritability, and headache. Night sweats, weight loss, and diarrhea may signal acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Nausea, vomiting, and anorexia may be signs of hepatitis B. Itching, rash, and jaundice may result from an allergic or hemolytic reaction.
Answer: (D) “I’ll need to have a C-section if I become pregnant and have a baby.” The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is transmitted from mother to child via the transplacental route, but a Cesarean section delivery isn’t necessary when the mother is HIV-positive. The use of birth control will prevent the conception of a child who might have HIV. It’s true that a mother who’s HIV positive can give birth to a baby who’s HIV negative.
Answer: (C) “Avoid sharing such articles as toothbrushes and razors.” The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), which causes AIDS, is most concentrated in the blood. For this reason, the client shouldn’t share personal articles that may be blood-contaminated, such as toothbrushes and razors, with other family members. HIV isn’t transmitted by bathing or by eating from plates, utensils, or serving dishes used by a person with AIDS.
Answer: (B) Pallor, tachycardia, and a sore tongue. Pallor, tachycardia, and a sore tongue are all characteristic findings in pernicious anemia. Other clinical manifestations include anorexia; weight loss; a smooth, beefy red tongue; a wide pulse pressure; palpitations; angina; weakness; fatigue; and paresthesia of the hands and feet. Bradycardia, reduced pulse pressure, weight gain, and double vision aren’t characteristic findings in pernicious anemia.
Answer: (B) Administer epinephrine, as prescribed, and prepare to intubate the client if necessary. To reverse anaphylactic shock, the nurse first should administer epinephrine, a potent bronchodilator as prescribed. The physician is likely to order additional medications, such as antihistamines and corticosteroids; if these medications don’t relieve the respiratory compromise associated with anaphylaxis, the nurse should prepare to intubate the client. No antidote for penicillin exists; however, the nurse should continue to monitor the client’s vital signs. A client who remains hypotensive may need fluid resuscitation and fluid intake and output monitoring; however, administering epinephrine is the first priority.
Answer: (D) bilateral hearing loss. Prolonged use of aspirin and other salicylates sometimes causes bilateral hearing loss of 30 to 40 decibels. Usually, this adverse effect resolves within 2 weeks after the therapy is discontinued. Aspirin doesn’t lead to weight gain or fine motor tremors. Large or toxic salicylate doses may cause respiratory alkalosis, not respiratory acidosis.
Answer: (D) Lymphocyte. The lymphocyte provides adaptive immunity — recognition of a foreign antigen and formation of memory cells against the antigen. Adaptive immunity is mediated by B and T lymphocytes and can be acquired actively or passively. The neutrophil is crucial to phagocytosis. The basophil plays an important role in the release of inflammatory mediators. The monocyte functions in phagocytosis and monokine production.
Answer: (A) moisture replacement. Sjogren’s syndrome is an autoimmune disorder leading to progressive loss of lubrication of the skin, GI tract, ears, nose, and vagina. Moisture replacement is the mainstay of therapy. Though malnutrition and electrolyte imbalance may occur as a result of Sjogren’s syndrome’s effect on the GI tract, it isn’t the predominant problem. Arrhythmias aren’t a problem associated with Sjogren’s syndrome.
Answer: (C) stool for Clostridium difficile test. Immunosuppressed clients — for example, clients receiving chemotherapy, — are at risk for infection with C. difficile, which causes “horse barn” smelling diarrhea. Successful treatment begins with an accurate diagnosis, which includes a stool test. The ELISA test is diagnostic for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and isn’t indicated in this case. An electrolyte panel and hemogram may be useful in the overall evaluation of a client but aren’t diagnostic for specific causes of diarrhea. A flat plate of the abdomen may provide useful information about bowel function but isn’t indicated in the case of “horse barn” smelling diarrhea.
Answer: (D) Western blot test with ELISA. HIV infection is detected by analyzing blood for antibodies to HIV, which form approximately 2 to 12 weeks after exposure to HIV and denote infection. The Western blot test — electrophoresis of antibody proteins — is more than 98% accurate in detecting HIV antibodies when used in conjunction with the ELISA. It isn’t specific when used alone. Erosette immunofluorescence is used to detect viruses in general; it doesn’t confirm HIV infection. Quantification of T-lymphocytes is a useful monitoring test but isn’t diagnostic for HIV. The ELISA test detects HIV antibody particles but may yield inaccurate results; a positive ELISA result must be confirmed by the Western blot test.
Answer: (C) Abnormally low hematocrit (HCT) and hemoglobin (Hb) levels. Low preoperative HCT and Hb levels indicate the client may require a blood transfusion before surgery. If the HCT and Hb levels decrease during surgery because of blood loss, the potential need for a transfusion increases. Possible renal failure is indicated by elevated BUN or creatinine levels. Urine constituents aren’t found in the blood. Coagulation is determined by the presence of appropriate clotting factors, not electrolytes.
Answer: (A) Platelet count, prothrombin time, and partial thromboplastin time. The diagnosis of DIC is based on the results of laboratory studies of prothrombin time, platelet count, thrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and fibrinogen level as well as client history and other assessment factors. Blood glucose levels, WBC count, calcium levels, and potassium levels aren’t used to confirm a diagnosis of DIC.
Answer: (D) Strawberries. Common food allergens include berries, peanuts, Brazil nuts, cashews, shellfish, and eggs. Bread, carrots, and oranges rarely cause allergic reactions.
Answer: (B) A client with cast on the right leg who states, “I have a funny feeling in my right leg.” It may indicate neurovascular compromise, requires immediate assessment.
Answer: (D) A 62-year-old who had an abdominal-perineal resection three days ago; client complaints of chills. The client is at risk for peritonitis; should be assessed for further symptoms and infection.
Answer: (C) The client spontaneously flexes his wrist when the blood pressure is obtained. Carpal spasms indicate hypocalcemia.
Answer: (D) Use comfort measures and pillows to position the client.Using comfort measures and pillows to position the client is a non-pharmacological methods of pain relief.
Answer: (B) Warm the dialysate solution. Cold dialysate increases discomfort. The solution should be warmed to body temperature in warmer or heating pad; don’t use microwave oven.
Answer: (C) The client holds the cane with his left hand, moves the cane forward followed by the right leg, and then moves the left leg. The cane acts as a support and aids in weight bearing for the weaker right leg.
Answer: (A) Ask the woman’s family to provide personal items such as photos or mementos.Photos and mementos provide visual stimulation to reduce sensory deprivation.
Answer: (B) The client lifts the walker, moves it forward 10 inches, and then takes several small steps forward. A walker needs to be picked up, placed down on all legs.
Answer: (C) Isolation from their families and familiar surroundings. Gradual loss of sight, hearing, and taste interferes with normal functioning.
Answer: (A) Encourage the client to perform pursed lip breathing. Purse lip breathing prevents the collapse of lung unit and helps client control rate and depth of breathing.