Answer: (C) Hypertension. Hypertension, along with fever, and tenderness over the grafted kidney, reflects acute rejection.
Answer: (A) Pain. Sharp, severe pain (renal colic) radiating toward the genitalia and thigh is caused by uretheral distention and smooth muscle spasm; relief form pain is the priority.
Answer: (D) Decrease the size and vascularity of the thyroid gland. Lugol’s solution provides iodine, which aids in decreasing the vascularity of the thyroid gland, which limits the risk of hemorrhage when surgery is performed.
Answer: (A) Liver Disease. The client with liver disease has a decreased ability to metabolize carbohydrates because of a decreased ability to form glycogen (glycogenesis) and to form glucose from glycogen.
Answer: (C) Leukopenia. Leukopenia, a reduction in WBCs, is a systemic effect of chemotherapy as a result of myelosuppression.
Answer: (C) Avoid foods that in the past caused flatus. Foods that bothered a person preoperatively will continue to do so after a colostomy.
Answer: (B) Keep the irrigating container less than 18 inches above the stoma.”  This height permits the solution to flow slowly with little force so that excessive peristalsis is not immediately precipitated.
Answer: (A) Administer Kayexalate. Kayexalate,a potassium exchange resin, permits sodium to be exchanged for potassium in the intestine, reducing the serum potassium level.
Answer:(B) 28 gtt/min.  This is the correct flow rate; multiply the amount to be infused (2000 ml) by the drop factor (10) and divide the result by the amount of time in minutes (12 hours x 60 minutes)
Answer: (D) Upper trunk.  The percentage designated for each burned part of the body using the rule of nines: Head and neck 9%; Right upper extremity 9%; Left upper extremity 9%; Anterior trunk 18%; Posterior trunk 18%; Right lower extremity 18%; Left lower extremity 18%; Perineum 1%.
Answer: (C) Bleeding from ears.  The nurse needs to perform a thorough assessment that could indicate alterations in cerebral function, increased intracranial pressures, fractures and bleeding. Bleeding from the ears occurs only with basal skull fractures that can easily contribute to increased intracranial pressure and brain herniation.
Answer: (D) may engage in contact sports. The client should be advised by the nurse to avoid contact sports. This will prevent trauma to the area of the pacemaker generator.
Answer: (A) Oxygen at 1-2L/min is given to maintain the hypoxic stimulus for breathing. COPD causes a chronic CO2 retention that renders the medulla insensitive to the CO2 stimulation for breathing. The hypoxic state of the client then becomes the stimulus for breathing. Giving the client oxygen in low concentrations will maintain the client’s hypoxic drive.
Answer: (B) Facilitate ventilation of the left lung. Since only a partial pneumonectomy is done, there is a need to promote expansion of this remaining Left lung by positioning the client on the opposite unoperated side.
Answer: (A) Food and fluids will be withheld for at least 2 hours.  Prior to bronchoscopy, the doctors sprays the back of the throat with anesthetic to minimize the gag reflex and thus facilitate the insertion of the bronchoscope. Giving the client food and drink after the procedure without checking on the return of the gag reflex can cause the client to aspirate. The gag reflex usually returns after two hours.
Answer: (C) hyperkalemia. Hyperkalemia is a common complication of acute renal failure. It’s life-threatening if immediate action isn’t taken to reverse it. The administration of glucose and regular insulin, with sodium bicarbonate if necessary, can temporarily prevent cardiac arrest by moving potassium into the cells and temporarily reducing serum potassium levels. Hypernatremia, hypokalemia, and hypercalcemia don’t usually occur with acute renal failure and aren’t treated with glucose, insulin, or sodium bicarbonate.
Answer: (A) This condition puts her at a higher risk for cervical cancer; therefore, she should have a Papanicolaou (Pap) smear annually. Women with condylomata acuminata are at risk for cancer of the cervix and vulva. Yearly Pap smears are very important for early detection. Because condylomata acuminata is a virus, there is no permanent cure. Because condylomata acuminata can occur on the vulva, a condom won’t protect sexual partners. HPV can be transmitted to other parts of the body, such as the mouth, oropharynx, and larynx.
Answer: (A) The left kidney usually is slightly higher than the right one. The left kidney usually is slightly higher than the right one. An adrenal gland lies atop each kidney. The average kidney measures approximately 11 cm (4-3/8″) long, 5 to 5.8 cm (2″ to 2¼”) wide, and 2.5 cm (1″) thick. The kidneys are located retroperitoneally, in the posterior aspect of the abdomen, on either side of the vertebral column. They lie between the 12th thoracic and 3rd lumbar vertebrae.
Answer: (C) Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) 100 mg/dl and serum creatinine 6.5 mg/dl. The normal BUN level ranges 8 to 23 mg/dl; the normal serum creatinine level ranges from 0.7 to 1.5 mg/dl. The test results in option C are abnormally elevated, reflecting CRF and the kidneys’ decreased ability to remove nonprotein nitrogen waste from the blood. CRF causes decreased pH and increased hydrogen ions — not vice versa. CRF also increases serum levels of potassium, magnesium, and phosphorous, and decreases serum levels of calcium. A uric acid analysis of 3.5 mg/dl falls within the normal range of 2.7 to 7.7 mg/dl; PSP excretion of 75% also falls with the normal range of 60% to 75%.
Answer: (D) Alteration in the size, shape, and organization of differentiated cells. Dysplasia refers to an alteration in the size, shape, and organization of differentiated cells. The presence of completely undifferentiated tumor cells that don’t resemble cells of the tissues of their origin is called anaplasia. An increase in the number of normal cells in a normal arrangement in a tissue or an organ is called hyperplasia. Replacement of one type of fully differentiated cell by another in tissues where the second type normally isn’t found is called metaplasia.
Answer: (D) Kaposi’s sarcoma. Kaposi’s sarcoma is the most common cancer associated with AIDS. Squamous cell carcinoma, multiple myeloma, and leukemia may occur in anyone and aren’t associated specifically with AIDS.
Answer: (C) To prevent cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage. The client receiving a subarachnoid block requires special positioning to prevent CSF leakage and headache and to ensure proper anesthetic distribution. Proper positioning doesn’t help prevent confusion, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias.
Answer: (A) Auscultate bowel sounds. If abdominal distention is accompanied by nausea, the nurse must first auscultate bowel sounds. If bowel sounds are absent, the nurse should suspect gastric or small intestine dilation and these findings must be reported to the physician. Palpation should be avoided postoperatively with abdominal distention. If peristalsis is absent, changing positions and inserting a rectal tube won’t relieve the client’s discomfort.
Answer: (B) Lying on the left side with knees bent. For a colonoscopy, the nurse initially should position the client on the left side with knees bent. Placing the client on the right side with legs straight, prone with the torso elevated, or bent over with hands touching the floor wouldn’t allow proper visualization of the large intestine.
Answer: (A) Blood supply to the stoma has been interrupted. An ileostomy stoma forms as the ileum is brought through the abdominal wall to the surface skin, creating an artificial opening for waste elimination. The stoma should appear cherry red, indicating adequate arterial perfusion. A dusky stoma suggests decreased perfusion, which may result from interruption of the stoma’s blood supply and may lead to tissue damage or necrosis. A dusky stoma isn’t a normal finding. Adjusting the ostomy bag wouldn’t affect stoma color, which depends on blood supply to the area. An intestinal obstruction also wouldn’t change stoma color.