Answer: (A) Applying knee splints. Applying knee splints prevents leg contractures by holding the joints in a position of function. Elevating the foot of the bed can’t prevent contractures because this action doesn’t hold the joints in a position of function. Hyperextending a body part for an extended time is inappropriate because it can cause contractures. Performing shoulder range-of-motion exercises can prevent contractures in the shoulders, but not in the legs.
Answer: (B) Urine output of 20 ml/hour. A urine output of less than 40 ml/hour in a client with burns indicates a fluid volume deficit. This client’s PaO2 value falls within the normal range (80 to 100 mm Hg). White pulmonary secretions also are normal. The client’s rectal temperature isn’t significantly elevated and probably results from the fluid volume deficit.
Answer: (A) Turn him frequently. The most important intervention to prevent pressure ulcers is frequent position changes, which relieve pressure on the skin and underlying tissues. If pressure isn’t relieved, capillaries become occluded, reducing circulation and oxygenation of the tissues and resulting in cell death and ulcer formation. During passive ROM exercises, the nurse moves each joint through its range of movement, which improves joint mobility and circulation to the affected area but doesn’t prevent pressure ulcers. Adequate hydration is necessary to maintain healthy skin and ensure tissue repair. A footboard prevents plantar flexion and footdrop by maintaining the foot in a dorsiflexed position.
Answer: (C) In long, even, outward, and downward strokes in the direction of hair growth. When applying a topical agent, the nurse should begin at the midline and use long, even, outward, and downward strokes in the direction of hair growth. This application pattern reduces the risk of follicle irritation and skin inflammation.
Answer: (A) Beta -adrenergic blockers. Beta-adrenergic blockers work by blocking beta receptors in the myocardium, reducing the response to catecholamines and sympathetic nerve stimulation. They protect the myocardium, helping to reduce the risk of another infraction by decreasing myocardial oxygen demand. Calcium channel blockers reduce the workload of the heart by decreasing the heart rate. Narcotics reduce myocardial oxygen demand, promote vasodilation, and decrease anxiety. Nitrates reduce myocardial oxygen consumption bt decreasing left ventricular end diastolic pressure (preload) and systemic vascular resistance (afterload).
Answer: (C) Raised 30 degrees. Jugular venous pressure is measured with a centimeter ruler to obtain the vertical distance between the sternal angle and the point of highest pulsation with the head of the bed inclined between 15 to 30 degrees. Increased pressure can’t be seen when the client is supine or when the head of the bed is raised 10 degrees because the point that marks the pressure level is above the jaw (therefore, not visible). In high Fowler’s position, the veins would be barely discernible above the clavicle.
Answer: (D) Inotropic agents. Inotropic agents are administered to increase the force of the heart’s contractions, thereby increasing ventricular contractility and ultimately increasing cardiac output. Beta-adrenergic blockers and calcium channel blockers decrease the heart rate and ultimately decreased the workload of the heart. Diuretics are administered to decrease the overall vascular volume, also decreasing the workload of the heart.
Answer: (B) Less than 30% of calories form fat. A client with low serum HDL and high serum LDL levels should get less than 30% of daily calories from fat. The other modifications are appropriate for this client.
Answer: (C) The emergency department nurse calls up the latest electrocardiogram results to check the client’s progress. The emergency department nurse is no longer directly involved with the client’s care and thus has no legal right to information about his present condition. Anyone directly involved in his care (such as the telemetry nurse and the on-call physician) has the right to information about his condition. Because the client requested that the nurse update his wife on his condition, doing so doesn’t breach confidentiality.
Answer: (B) Check endotracheal tube placement. ET tube placement should be confirmed as soon as the client arrives in the emergency department. Once the airways is secured, oxygenation and ventilation should be confirmed using an end-tidal carbon dioxide monitor and pulse oximetry. Next, the nurse should make sure L.V. access is established. If the client experiences symptomatic bradycardia, atropine is administered as ordered 0.5 to 1 mg every 3 to 5 minutes to a total of 3 mg. Then the nurse should try to find the cause of the client’s arrest by obtaining an ABG sample. Amiodarone is indicated for ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation and atrial flutter – not symptomatic bradycardia.
Answer: (C) 95 mm Hg. Use the following formula to calculate MAP: MAP = systolic + 2 (diastolic) /3, MAP=[126 mm Hg + 2 (80 mm Hg) ]/3, MAP=286 mm HG/ 3, MAP=95 mm Hg
Answer: (C) Electrocardiogram, complete blood count, testing for occult blood, comprehensive serum metabolic panel. An electrocardiogram evaluates the complaints of chest pain, laboratory tests determines anemia, and the stool test for occult blood determines blood in the stool. Cardiac monitoring, oxygen, and creatine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase levels are appropriate for a cardiac primary problem. A basic metabolic panel and alkaline phosphatase and aspartate aminotransferase levels assess liver function. Prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen and fibrin split products are measured to verify bleeding dyscrasias, An electroencephalogram evaluates brain electrical activity.
Answer: (D) Heparin-associated thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (HATT). HATT may occur after CABG surgery due to heparin use during surgery. Although DIC and ITP cause platelet aggregation and bleeding, neither is common in a client after revascularization surgery. Pancytopenia is a reduction in all blood cells.
Answer: (B) Corticosteroids. Corticosteroid therapy can decrease antibody production and phagocytosis of the antibody-coated platelets, retaining more functioning platelets. Methotrexate can cause thrombocytopenia. Vitamin K is used to treat an excessive anticoagulate state from warfarin overload, and ASA decreases platelet aggregation.
Answer: (D) Xenogeneic. An xenogeneic transplant is between is between human and another species. A syngeneic transplant is between identical twins, allogeneic transplant is between two humans, and autologous is a transplant from the same individual.
Answer: (B). Tissue thromboplastin is released when damaged tissue comes in contact with clotting factors. Calcium is released to assist the conversion of factors X to Xa. Conversion of factors XII to XIIa and VIII to VIII a are part of the intrinsic pathway.
Answer: (C) Essential thrombocytopenia. Essential thrombocytopenia is linked to immunologic disorders, such as SLE and human immunodeficiency vitus. The disorder known as von Willebrand’s disease is a type of hemophilia and isn’t linked to SLE. Moderate to severe anemia is associated with SLE, not polycythermia. Dressler’s syndrome is pericarditis that occurs after a myocardial infarction and isn’t linked to SLE.
Answer: (B) Night sweat. In stage 1, symptoms include a single enlarged lymph node (usually), unexplained fever, night sweats, malaise, and generalized pruritis. Although splenomegaly may be present in some clients, night sweats are generally more prevalent. Pericarditis isn’t associated with Hodgkin’s disease, nor is hypothermia. Moreover, splenomegaly and pericarditis aren’t symptoms. Persistent hypothermia is associated with Hodgkin’s but isn’t an early sign of the disease.
Answer: (D) Breath sounds.  Pneumonia, both viral and fungal, is a common cause of death in clients with neutropenia, so frequent assessment of respiratory rate and breath sounds is required. Although assessing blood pressure, bowel sounds, and heart sounds is important, it won’t help detect pneumonia.
Answer: (B) Muscle spasm. Back pain or paresthesia in the lower extremities may indicate impending spinal cord compression from a spinal tumor. This should be recognized and treated promptly as progression of the tumor may result in paraplegia. The other options, which reflect parts of the nervous system, aren’t usually affected by MM.
Answer: (C)10 years. Epidermiologic studies show the average time from initial contact with HIV to the development of AIDS is 10 years.
Answer: (A) Low platelet count. In DIC, platelets and clotting factors are consumed, resulting in microthrombi and excessive bleeding. As clots form, fibrinogen levels decrease and the prothrombin time increases. Fibrin degeneration products increase as fibrinolysis takes places.
Answer: (D) Hodgkin’s disease. Hodgkin’s disease typically causes fever night sweats, weight loss, and lymph mode enlargement. Influenza doesn’t last for months. Clients with sickle cell anemia manifest signs and symptoms of chronic anemia with pallor of the mucous membrane, fatigue, and decreased tolerance for exercise; they don’t show fever, night sweats, weight loss or lymph node enlargement. Leukemia doesn’t cause lymph node enlargement.
Answer: (C) A Rh-negative. Human blood can sometimes contain an inherited D antigen. Persons with the D antigen have Rh-positive blood type; those lacking the antigen have Rh-negative blood. It’s important that a person with Rhnegative blood receives Rh-negative blood. If Rh-positive blood is administered to an Rh-negative person, the recipient develops anti-Rh agglutinins, and sub sequent transfusions with Rh-positive blood may cause serious reactions with clumping and hemolysis of red blood cells.
Answer: (B) “I will call my doctor if Stacy has persistent vomiting and diarrhea”.  Persistent (more than 24 hours) vomiting, anorexia, and diarrhea are signs of toxicity and the patient should stop the medication and notify the health care provider. The other manifestations are expected side effects of chemotherapy.