Answer: (D) “This is only temporary; Stacy will re-grow new hair in 3-6 months, but may be different in texture”. This is the appropriate response. The nurse should help the mother how to cope with her own feelings regarding the child’s disease so as not to affect the child negatively. When the hair grows back, it is still of the same color and texture.
Answer: (B) Apply viscous Lidocaine to oral ulcers as needed. Stomatitis can cause pain and this can be relieved by applying topical anesthetics such as lidocaine before mouth care. When the patient is already comfortable, the nurse can proceed with providing the patient with oral rinses of saline solution mixed with equal part of water or hydrogen peroxide mixed water in 1:3 concentrations to promote oral hygiene. Every 2-4 hours.
Answer: (C) Immediately discontinue the infusion. Edema or swelling at the IV site is a sign that the needle has been dislodged and the IV solution is leaking into the tissues causing the edema. The patient feels pain as the nerves are irritated by pressure and the IV solution. The first action of the nurse would be to discontinue the infusion right away to prevent further edema and other complication.
Answer: (C) Chronic obstructive bronchitis. Clients with chronic obstructive bronchitis appear bloated; they have large barrel chest and peripheral edema, cyanotic nail beds, and at times, circumoral cyanosis. Clients with ARDS are acutely short of breath and frequently need intubation for mechanical ventilation and large amount of oxygen. Clients with asthma don’t exhibit characteristics of chronic disease, and clients with emphysema appear pink and cachectic.
Answer: (D) Emphysema. Because of the large amount of energy it takes to breathe, clients with emphysema are usually cachectic. They’re pink and usually breathe through pursed lips, hence the term “puffer.” Clients with ARDS are usually acutely short of breath. Clients with asthma don’t have any particular characteristics, and clients with chronic obstructive bronchitis are bloated and cyanotic in appearance.
Answer: (D) 80 mm Hg. A client about to go into respiratory arrest will have inefficient ventilation and will be retaining carbon dioxide. The value expected would be around 80 mm Hg. All other values are lower than expected.
Answer: (C) Respiratory acidosis. Because Paco2 is high at 80 mm Hg and the metabolic measure, HCO3- is normal, the client has respiratory acidosis. The pH is less than 7.35, academic, which eliminates metabolic and respiratory alkalosis as possibilities. If the HCO3- was below 22 mEq/L the client would have metabolic acidosis.
Answer: (C) Respiratory failure. The client was reacting to the drug with respiratory signs of impending anaphylaxis, which could lead to eventually respiratory failure. Although the signs are also related to an asthma attack or a pulmonary embolism, consider the new drug first. Rheumatoid arthritis doesn’t manifest these signs.
Answer: (D) Elevated serum aminotransferase. Hepatic cell death causes release of liver enzymes alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) into the circulation. Liver cirrhosis is a chronic and irreversible disease of the liver characterized by generalized inflammation and fibrosis of the liver tissues.
Answer: (A) Impaired clotting mechanism. Cirrhosis of the liver results in decreased Vitamin K absorption and formation of clotting factors resulting in impaired clotting mechanism.
Answer: (B) Altered level of consciousness. Changes in behavior and level of consciousness are the first sins of hepatic encephalopathy. Hepatic encephalopathy is caused by liver failure and develops when the liver is unable to convert protein metabolic product ammonia to urea. This results in accumulation of ammonia and other toxic in the blood that damages the cells.
Answer: (C) “I’ll lower the dosage as ordered so the drug causes only 2 to 4 stools a day”. Lactulose is given to a patients with hepatic encephalopathy to reduce absorption of ammonia in the intestines by binding with ammonia and promoting more frequent bowel movements. If the patient experience diarrhea, it indicates over dosage and the nurse must reduce the amount of medication given to the patient. The stool will be mashy or soft. Lactulose is also very sweet and may cause cramping and bloating.
Answer: (B) Severe lower back pain, decreased blood pressure, decreased RBC count, increased WBC count.Severe lower back pain indicates an aneurysm rupture, secondary to pressure being applied within the abdominal cavity. When ruptured occurs, the pain is constant because it can’t be alleviated until the aneurysm is repaired. Blood pressure decreases due to the loss of blood. After the aneurysm ruptures, the vasculature is interrupted and blood volume is lost, so blood pressure wouldn’t increase. For the same reason, the RBC count is decreased – not increased. The WBC count increases as cell migrate to the site of injury.
Answer: (D) Apply gloves and assess the groin site. Observing standard precautions is the first priority when dealing with any blood fluid. Assessment of the groin site is the second priority. This establishes where the blood is coming from and determineshow much blood has been lost. The goal in this situation is to stop the bleeding. The nurse would call for help if it were warranted after the assessment of the situation. After determining the extent of the bleeding, vital signs assessment is important. The nurse should never move the client, in case a clot has formed. Moving can disturb the clot and cause rebleeding.
Answer: (D) Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). PTCA can alleviate the blockage and restore blood flow and oxygenation. An echocardiogram is a noninvasive diagnosis test. Nitroglycerin is an oral sublingual medication. Cardiac catheterization is a diagnostic tool – not a treatment.
Answer: (B) Cardiogenic shock. Cardiogenic shock is shock related to ineffective pumping of the heart. Anaphylactic shock results from an allergic reaction. Distributive shock results from changes in the intravascular volume distribution and is usually associated with increased cardiac output. MI isn’t a shock state, though a severe MI can lead to shock.
Answer: (C) Kidneys’ excretion of sodium and water. The kidneys respond to rise in blood pressure by excreting sodium and excess water. This response ultimately affects sysmolic blood pressure by regulating blood volume. Sodium or water retention would only further increase blood pressure. Sodium and water travel together across the membrane in the kidneys; one can’t travel without the other.
Answer: (D) It inhibits reabsorption of sodium and water in the loop of Henle. Furosemide is a loop diuretic that inhibits sodium and water reabsorption in the loop Henle, thereby causing a decrease in blood pressure. Vasodilators cause dilation of peripheral blood vessels, directly relaxing vascular smooth muscle and decreasing blood pressure. Adrenergic blockers decrease sympathetic cardioacceleration and decrease blood pressure. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors decrease blood pressure due to their action on angiotensin.
Answer: (C) Pancytopenia, elevated antinuclear antibody (ANA) titer. Laboratory findings for clients with SLE usually show pancytopenia, elevated ANA titer, and decreased serum complement levels. Clients may have elevated BUN and creatinine levels from nephritis, but the increase does not indicate SLE.
Answer: (C) Narcotics are avoided after a head injury because they may hide a worsening condition. Narcotics may mask changes in the level of consciousness that indicate increased ICP and shouldn’t acetaminophen is strong enough ignores the mother’s question and therefore isn’t appropriate. Aspirin is contraindicated in conditions that may have bleeding, such as trauma, and for children or young adults with viral illnesses due to the danger of Reye’s syndrome. Stronger medications may not necessarily lead to vomiting but will sedate the client, thereby masking changes in his level of consciousness.
Answer: (A) Appropriate; lowering carbon dioxide (CO2) reduces intracranial pressure (ICP). A normal Paco2 value is 35 to 45 mm Hg CO2 has vasodilating properties; therefore, lowering Paco2 through hyperventilation will lower ICP caused by dilated cerebral vessels. Oxygenation is evaluated through Pao2 and oxygen saturation. Alveolar hypoventilation would be reflected in an increased Paco2.
Answer: (B) A 33-year-old client with a recent diagnosis of Guillain-Barre syndrome . Guillain-Barre syndrome is characterized by ascending paralysis and potential respiratory failure. The order of client assessment should follow client priorities, with disorder of airways, breathing, and then circulation. There’s no information to suggest the postmyocardial infarction client has an arrhythmia or other complication. There’s no evidence to suggest hemorrhage or perforation for the remaining clients as a priority of care.
Answer: (C) Decreases inflammation. Then action of colchicines is to decrease inflammation by reducing the migration of leukocytes to synovial fluid. Colchicine doesn’t replace estrogen, decrease infection, or decrease bone demineralization.
Answer: (C) Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis and can be extremely debilitating. It can afflict people of any age, although most are elderly.
Answer: (C) Myxedema coma. Myxedema coma, severe hypothyroidism, is a life-threatening condition that may develop if thyroid replacement medication isn’t taken. Exophthalmos, protrusion of the eyeballs, is seen with hyperthyroidism. Thyroid storm is life-threatening but is caused by severe hyperthyroidism. Tibial myxedema, peripheral mucinous edema involving the lower leg, is associated with hypothyroidism but isn’t life-threatening.