Answer: (B) An irregular apical pulse. Because Cushing’s syndrome causes aldosterone overproduction, which increases urinary potassium loss, the disorder may lead to hypokalemia. Therefore, the nurse should immediately report signs and symptoms of hypokalemia, such as an irregular apical pulse, to the physician. Edema is an expected finding because aldosterone overproduction causes sodium and fluid retention. Dry mucous membranes and frequent urination signal dehydration, which isn’t associated with Cushing’s syndrome.
Answer: (D) Below-normal urine osmolality level, above-normal serum osmolality level. In diabetes insipidus, excessive polyuria causes dilute urine, resulting in a below-normal urine osmolality level. At the same time, polyuria depletes the body of water, causing dehydration that leads to an above-normal serum osmolality level. For the same reasons, diabetes insipidus doesn’t cause above-normal urine osmolality or below-normal serum osmolality levels.
Answer: (A) “I can avoid getting sick by not becoming dehydrated and by paying attention to my need to urinate, drink, or eat more than usual.” Inadequate fluid intake during hyperglycemic episodes often leads to HHNS. By recognizing the signs of hyperglycemia (polyuria, polydipsia, and polyphagia) and increasing fluid intake, the client may prevent HHNS. Drinking a glass of nondiet soda would be appropriate for hypoglycemia. A client whose diabetes is controlled with oral antidiabetic agents usually doesn’t need to monitor blood glucose levels. A highcarbohydrate diet would exacerbate the client’s condition, particularly if fluid intake is low.
Answer: (D) Hyperparathyroidism. Hyperparathyroidism is most common in older women and is characterized by bone pain and weakness from excess parathyroid hormone (PTH). Clients also exhibit hypercaliuria-causing polyuria. While clients with diabetes mellitus and diabetes insipidus also have polyuria, they don’t have bone pain and increased sleeping. Hypoparathyroidism is characterized by urinary frequency rather than polyuria.
Answer: (C) “I’ll take two-thirds of the dose when I wake up and one-third in the late afternoon.” Hydrocortisone, a glucocorticoid, should be administered according to a schedule that closely reflects the body’s own secretion of this hormone; therefore, two-thirds of the dose of hydrocortisone should be taken in the morning and one-third in the late afternoon. This dosage schedule reduces adverse effects.
Answer: (C) High corticotropin and high cortisol levels. A corticotropin-secreting pituitary tumor would cause high corticotropin and high cortisol levels. A high corticotropin level with a low cortisol level and a low corticotropin level with a low cortisol level would be associated with hypocortisolism. Low corticotropin and high cortisol levels would be seen if there was a primary defect in the adrenal glands.
Answer: (D) Performing capillary glucose testing every 4 hours. The nurse should perform capillary glucose testing every 4 hours because excess cortisol may cause insulin resistance, placing the client at risk for hyperglycemia. Urine ketone testing isn’t indicated because the client does secrete insulin and, therefore, isn’t at risk for ketosis. Urine specific gravity isn’t indicated because although fluid balance can be compromised, it usually isn’t dangerously imbalanced. Temperature regulation may be affected by excess cortisol and isn’t an accurate indicator of infection.
Answer: (C) onset to be at 2:30 p.m. and its peak to be at 4 p.m.. Regular insulin, which is a short-acting insulin, has an onset of 15 to 30 minutes and a peak of 2 to 4 hours. Because the nurse gave the insulin at 2 p.m., the expected onset would be from 2:15 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. and the peak from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Answer: (A) No increase in the thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level after 30 minutes during the TSH stimulation test. In the TSH test, failure of the TSH level to rise after 30 minutes confirms hyperthyroidism. A decreased TSH level indicates a pituitary deficiency of this hormone. Below-normal levels of T3 and T4, as detected by radioimmunoassay, signal hypothyroidism. A below-normal T4 level also occurs in malnutrition and liver disease and may result from administration of phenytoin and certain other drugs.
Answer: (B) “Rotate injection sites within the same anatomic region, not among different regions.”  The nurse should instruct the client to rotate injection sites within the same anatomic region. Rotating sites among different regions may cause excessive day-to-day variations in the blood glucose level; also, insulin absorption differs from one region to the next. Insulin should be injected only into healthy tissue lacking large blood vessels, nerves, or scar tissue or other deviations. Injecting insulin into areas of hypertrophy may delay absorption. The client shouldn’t inject insulin into areas of lipodystrophy (such as hypertrophy or atrophy); to prevent lipodystrophy, the client should rotate injection sites systematically. Exercise speeds drug absorption, so the client shouldn’t inject insulin into sites above muscles that will be exercised heavily.
Answer: (D) Below-normal serum potassium level. A client with HHNS has an overall body deficit of potassium resulting from diuresis, which occurs secondary to the hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic state caused by the relative insulin deficiency. An elevated serum acetone level and serum ketone bodies are characteristic of diabetic ketoacidosis. Metabolic acidosis, not serum alkalosis, may occur in HHNS.
Answer: (D) Maintaining room temperature in the low-normal range. Graves’ disease causes signs and symptoms of hypermetabolism, such as heat intolerance, diaphoresis, excessive thirst and appetite, and weight loss. To reduce heat intolerance and diaphoresis, the nurse should keep the client’s room temperature in the low-normal range. To replace fluids lost via diaphoresis, the nurse should encourage, not restrict, intake of oral fluids. Placing extra blankets on the bed of a client with heat intolerance would cause discomfort. To provide needed energy and calories, the nurse should encourage the client to eat high-carbohydrate foods.
Answer: (A) Fracture of the distal radius. Colles’ fracture is a fracture of the distal radius, such as from a fall on an outstretched hand. It’s most common in women. Colles’ fracture doesn’t refer to a fracture of the olecranon, humerus, or carpal scaphoid.
Answer: (B) Calcium and phosphorous. In osteoporosis, bones lose calcium and phosphate salts, becoming porous, brittle, and abnormally vulnerable to fracture. Sodium and potassium aren’t involved in the development of osteoporosis.
Answer: (A) Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Severe hypoxia after smoke inhalation is typically related to ARDS. The other conditions listed aren’t typically associated with smoke inhalation and severe hypoxia.
Answer: (D) Fat embolism. Long bone fractures are correlated with fat emboli, whichcause shortness of breath and hypoxia. It’s unlikely the client has developed asthma or bronchitis without a previous history. He could develop atelectasis but it typically doesn’t produce progressive hypoxia.
Answer: (D) Spontaneous pneumothorax. A spontaneous pneumothorax occurs when the client’s lung collapses, causing an acute decreased in the amount of functional lung used in oxygenation. The sudden collapse was the cause of his chest pain and shortness of breath. An asthma attack would show wheezing breath sounds, and bronchitis would have rhonchi. Pneumonia would have bronchial breath sounds over the area of consolidation.
Answer: (C) Pneumothorax. From the trauma the client experienced, it’s unlikely he has bronchitis, pneumonia, or TB; rhonchi with bronchitis, bronchial breath sounds with TB would be heard.
Answer: (C) Serous fluids fills the space and consolidates the region. Serous fluid fills the space and eventually consolidates, preventing extensive mediastinal shift of the heart and remaining lung. Air can’t be left in the space. There’s no gel that can be placed in the pleural space. The tissue from the other lung can’t cross the mediastinum, although a temporary mediastinal shift exits until the space is filled.
Answer: (A) Alveolar damage in the infracted area. The infracted area produces alveolar damage that can lead to the production of bloody sputum, sometimes in massive amounts. Clot formation usually occurs in the legs. There’s a loss of lung parenchyma and subsequent scar tissue formation.
Answer: (D) Respiratory alkalosis. A client with massive pulmonary embolism will have a large region and blow off large amount of carbon dioxide, which crosses the unaffected alveolar-capillary membrane more readily than does oxygen and results in respiratory alkalosis.
Answer: (A) Air leak. Bubbling in the water seal chamber of a chest drainage system stems from an air leak. In pneumothorax an air leak can occur as air is pulled from the pleural space. Bubbling doesn’t normally occur with either adequate or inadequate suction or any preexisting bubbling in the water seal chamber.
Answer: (B) 21. 3000 x 10 divided by 24 x 60.
Answer: (B) 2.4 ml. .05 mg/ 1 ml = .12mg/ x ml, .05x = .12, x = 2.4 ml.
Answer: (D) “I should put on the stockings before getting out of bed in the morning. Promote venous return by applying external pressure on veins.