Answer: (D) Focusing. The nurse is using focusing by suggesting that the client discuss a specific issue. The nurse didn’t restate the question, make observation, or ask further question (exploring).
Answer: (D) Remove all other clients from the dayroom. The nurse’s first priority is to consider the safety of the clients in the therapeutic setting. The other actions are appropriate responses after ensuring the safety of other clients.
Answer: (A) The client is disruptive. Group activity provides too much stimulation, which the client will not be able to handle (harmful to self) and as a result will be disruptive to others.
Answer: (C) Agree to talk with the mother and the father together. By agreeing to talk with both parents, the nurse can provide emotional support and further assess and validate the family’s needs.
Answer: (A) Perceptual disorders. Frightening visual hallucinations are especially common in clients experiencing alcohol withdrawal.
Answer: (D) Suggest that it takes awhile before seeing the results. The client needs a specific response; that it takes 2 to 3 weeks (a delayed effect) until the therapeutic blood level is reached.
Answer: (C) Superego.  This behavior shows a weak sense of moral consciousness. According to Freudian theory, personality disorders stem from a weak superego.
Answer: (C) Skeletal muscle paralysis. Anectine is a depolarizing muscle relaxant causing paralysis. It is used to reduce the intensity of muscle contractions during the convulsive stage, thereby reducing the risk of bone fractures or dislocation.
Answer: (D) Increase calories, carbohydrates, and protein.This client increased protein for tissue building and increased calories to replace what is burned up (usually via carbohydrates).
Answer: (C) Acting overly solicitous toward the child. This behavior is an example of reaction formation, a coping mechanism.
Answer: (A) By designating times during which the client can focus on the behavior. The nurse should designate times during which the client can focus on the compulsive behavior or obsessive thoughts. The nurse should urge the client to reduce the frequency of the compulsive behavior gradually, not rapidly. She shouldn’t call attention to or try to prevent the behavior. Trying to prevent the behavior may cause pain and terror in the client. The nurse should encourage the client to verbalize anxieties to help distract attention from the compulsive behavior.
Answer: (D) Exploring the meaning of the traumatic event with the client. The client with PTSD needs encouragement to examine and understand the meaning of the traumatic event and consequent losses. Otherwise, symptoms may worsen and the client may become depressed or engage in self-destructive behavior such as substance abuse. The client must explore the meaning of the event and won’t heal without this, no matter how much time passes. Behavioral techniques, such as relaxation therapy, may help decrease the client’s anxiety and induce sleep. The physician may prescribe antianxiety agents or antidepressants cautiously to avoid dependence; sleep medication is rarely appropriate. A special diet isn’t indicated unless the client also has an eating disorder or a nutritional problem.
Answer: (C) “Your problem is real but there is no physical basis for it. We’ll work on what is going on in your life to find out why it’s happened.” The nurse must be honest with the client by telling her that the paralysis has no physiologic cause while also conveying empathy and acknowledging that her symptoms are real. The client will benefit from psychiatric treatment, which will help her understand the underlying cause of her symptoms. After the psychological conflict is resolved, her symptoms will disappear. Saying that it must be awful not to be able to move her legs wouldn’t answer the client’s question; knowing that the cause is psychological wouldn’t necessarily make her feel better. Telling her that she has developed paralysis to avoid leaving her parents or that her personality caused her disorder wouldn’t help her understand and resolve the underlying conflict.
Answer: (C) fluvoxamine (Luvox) and clomipramine (Anafranil). The antidepressants fluvoxamine and clomipramine have been effective in the treatment of OCD. Librium and Valium may be helpful in treating anxiety related to OCD but aren’t drugs of choice to treat the illness. The other medications mentioned aren’t effective in the treatment of OCD.
Answer: (A) A warning about the drugs delayed therapeutic effect, which is from 14 to 30 days. The client should be informed that the drug’s therapeutic effect might not be reached for 14 to 30 days. The client must be instructed to continue taking the drug as directed. Blood level checks aren’t necessary. NMS hasn’t been reported with this drug, but tachycardia is frequently reported.
Answer: (B) Severe anxiety and fear. Phobias cause severe anxiety (such as a panic attack) that is out of proportion to the threat of the feared object or situation. Physical signs and symptoms of phobias include profuse sweating, poor motor control, tachycardia, and elevated blood pressure. Insomnia, an inability to concentrate, and weight loss are common in depression. Withdrawal and failure to distinguish reality from fantasy occur in schizophrenia.
Answer: (A) Antidepressants. Tricyclic and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor antidepressants have been found to be effective in treating clients with panic attacks. Why these drugs help control panic attacks isn’t clearly understood. Anticholinergic agents, which are smooth-muscle relaxants, relieve physical symptoms of anxiety but don’t relieve the anxiety itself. Antipsychotic drugs are inappropriate because clients who experience panic attacks aren’t psychotic. Mood stabilizers aren’t indicated because panic attacks are rarely associated with mood changes.
Answer: (B) 3 to 5 days.  Monoamine oxidase inhibitors, such as tranylcypromine, have an onset of action of approximately 3 to 5 days. A full clinical response may be delayed for 3 to 4 weeks. The therapeutic effects may continue for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation.
Answer: (B) Providing emotional support and individual counseling. Clients in the first stage of Alzheimer’s disease are aware that something is happening to them and may become overwhelmed and frightened. Therefore, nursing care typically focuses on providing emotional support and individual counseling. The other options are appropriate during the second stage of Alzheimer’s disease, when the client needs continuous monitoring to prevent minor illnesses from progressing into major problems and when maintaining adequate nutrition may become a challenge. During this stage, offering nourishing finger foods helps clients to feed themselves and maintain adequate nutrition.
Answer: (C) Emotional lability, euphoria, and impaired memory. Signs of antianxiety agent overdose include emotional lability, euphoria, and impaired memory. Phencyclidine overdose can cause combativeness, sweating, and confusion. Amphetamine overdose can result in agitation, hyperactivity, and grandiose ideation. Hallucinogen overdose can produce suspiciousness, dilated pupils, and increased blood pressure.
Answer: (D) A low tolerance for frustration. Clients with an antisocial personality disorder exhibit a low tolerance for frustration, emotional immaturity, and a lack of impulse control. They commonly have a history of unemployment, miss work repeatedly, and quit work without other plans for employment. They don’t feel guilt about their behavior and commonly perceive themselves as victims. They also display a lack of responsibility for the outcome of their actions. Because of a lack of trust in others, clients with antisocial personality disorder commonly have difficulty developing stable, close relationships.
Answer: (C) Methadone. Methadone is used to detoxify opiate users because it binds with opioid receptors at many sites in the central nervous system but doesn’t have the same deterious effects as other opiates, such as cocaine, heroin, and morphine. Barbiturates, amphetamines, and benzodiazepines are highly addictive and would require detoxification treatment.
Answer: (B) Hallucinations. Hallucinations are visual, auditory, gustatory, tactile, or olfactory perceptions that have no basis in reality. Delusions are false beliefs, rather than perceptions, that the client accepts as real. Loose associations are rapid shifts among unrelated ideas. Neologisms are bizarre words that have meaning only to the client.
Answer: (C) Set up a strict eating plan for the client. Establishing a consistent eating plan and monitoring the client’s weight are very important in this disorder. The family and friends should be included in the client’s care. The client should be monitored during meals-not given privacy. Exercise must be limited and supervised.
Answer: (A) Highly important or famous. A delusion of grandeur is a false belief that one is highly important or famous. A delusion of persecution is a false belief that one is being persecuted. A delusion of reference is a false belief that one is connected to events unrelated to oneself or a belief that one is responsible for the evil in the world.
Answer: (D) Listening attentively with a neutral attitude and avoiding power struggles. The nurse should listen to the client’s requests, express willingness to seriously consider the request, and respond later. The nurse should encourage the client to take short daytime naps because he expends so much energy. The nurse shouldn’t try to restrain the client when he feels the need to move around as long as his activity isn’t harmful. High calorie finger foods should be offered to supplement the client’s diet, if he can’t remain seated long enough to eat a complete meal. The nurse shouldn’t be forced to stay seated at the table to finish a meal. The nurse should set limits in a calm, clear, and self-confident tone of voice.
Answer: (D) Denial. Denial is unconscious defense mechanism in which emotional conflict and anxiety is avoided by refusing to acknowledge feelings, desires, impulses, or external facts that are consciously intolerable. Withdrawal is a common response to stress, characterized by apathy. Logical thinking is the ability to think rationally and make responsible decisions, which would lead the client admitting the problem and seeking help. Repression is suppressing past events from the consciousness because of guilty association.
Answer: (B) Paranoid thoughts. Clients with schizotypal personality disorder experience excessive social anxiety that can lead to paranoid thoughts. Aggressive behavior is uncommon, although these clients may experience agitation with anxiety. Their behavior is emotionally cold with a flattened affect, regardless of the situation. These clients demonstrate a reduced capacity for close or dependent relationships.
Answer: (C) Identify anxiety-causing situations. Bulimic behavior is generally a maladaptive coping response to stress and underlying issues. The client must identify anxiety-causing situations that stimulate the bulimic behavior and then learn new ways of coping with the anxiety.
Answer: (A) Tension and irritability. An amphetamine is a nervous system stimulant that is subject to abuse because of its ability to produce wakefulness and euphoria. An overdose increases tension and irritability. Options B and C are incorrect because amphetamines stimulate norepinephrine, which increase the heart rate and blood flow. Diarrhea is a common adverse effect so option D in is incorrect.
Answer: (B) “No, I do not hear your voices, but I believe you can hear them”. The nurse, demonstrating knowledge and understanding, accepts the client’s perceptions even though they are hallucinatory.
Answer: (C) Confusion for a time after treatment. The electrical energy passing through the cerebral cortex during ECT results in a temporary state of confusion after treatment.
Answer: (D) Acceptance stage. Communication and intervention during this stage are mainly nonverbal, as when the client gestures to hold the nurse’s hand.
Answer: (D) A higher level of anxiety continuing for more than 3 months. This is not an expected outcome of a crisis because by definition a crisis would be resolved in 6 weeks.
Answer: (B) Staying in the sun. Haldol causes photosensitivity. Severe sunburn can occur on exposure to the sun.
Answer: (D) Moderate-level anxiety. A moderately anxious person can ignore peripheral events and focuses on central concerns.
Answer: (C) Diverse interest. Before onset of depression, these clients usually have very narrow, limited interest.
Answer: (A) As their depression begins to improve. At this point the client may have enough energy to plan and execute an attempt.
Answer: (D) Disturbance in recalling recent events related to cerebral hypoxia. Cell damage seems to interfere with registering input stimuli, which affects the ability to register and recall recent events; vascular dementia is related to multiple vascular lesions of the cerebral cortex and subcortical structure.
Answer: (D) Encouraging the client to have blood levels checked as ordered. Blood levels must be checked monthly or bimonthly when the client is on maintenance therapy because there is only a small range between therapeutic and toxic levels.
Answer: (B) Fine hand tremors or slurred speech. These are common side effects of lithium carbonate.
Answer: (D) Presence. The constant presence of a nurse provides emotional support because the client knows that someone is attentive and available in case of an emergency.
Answer: (A) Client’s perception of the presenting problem. The nurse can be most therapeutic by starting where the client is, because it is the client’s concept of the problem that serves as the starting point of the relationship.
Answer: (B) Chocolate milk, aged cheese, and yogurt’. These high-tyramine foods, when ingested in the presence of an MAO inhibitor, cause a severe hypertensive response.
Answer: (B) 4 to 6 weeks. Crisis is self-limiting and lasts from 4 to 6 weeks.
Answer: (D) Males are more likely to use lethal methods than are females.  This finding is supported by research; females account for 90% of suicide attempts but males are three times more successful because of methods used.
Answer: (C) “Your cursing is interrupting the activity. Take time out in your room for 10 minutes.”  The nurse should set limits on client behavior to ensure a comfortable environment for all clients. The nurse should accept hostile or quarrelsome client outbursts within limits without becoming personally offended, as in option A. Option B is incorrect because it implies that the client’s actions reflect feelings toward the staff instead of the client’s own misery. Judgmental remarks, such as option D, may decrease the client’s self-esteem.
Answer: (C) lithium carbonate (Lithane). Lithium carbonate, an antimania drug, is used to treat clients with cyclical schizoaffective disorder, a psychotic disorder once classified under schizophrenia that causes affective symptoms, including maniclike activity. Lithium helps control the affective component of this disorder. Phenelzine is a monoamine oxidase inhibitor prescribed for clients who don’t respond to other antidepressant drugs such as imipramine. Chlordiazepoxide, an antianxiety agent, generally is contraindicated in psychotic clients. Imipramine, primarily considered an antidepressant agent, is also used to treat clients with agoraphobia and that undergoing cocaine detoxification.
Answer: (B) Report a sore throat or fever to the physician immediately. A sore throat and fever are indications of an infection caused by agranulocytosis, a potentially life-threatening complication of clozapine. Because of the risk of agranulocytosis, white blood cell (WBC) counts are necessary weekly, not monthly. If the WBC count drops below 3,000/μl, the medication must be stopped. Hypotension may occur in clients taking this medication. Warn the client to stand up slowly to avoid dizziness from orthostatic hypotension. The medication should be continued, even when symptoms have been controlled. If the medication must be stopped, it should be slowly tapered over 1 to 2 weeks and only under the supervision of a physician.
Answer: (C) Neuroleptic malignant syndrome. The client’s signs and symptoms suggest neuroleptic malignant syndrome, a life-threatening reaction to neuroleptic medication that requires immediate treatment. Tardive dyskinesia causes involuntary movements of the tongue, mouth, facial muscles, and arm and leg muscles. Dystonia is characterized by cramps and rigidity of the tongue, face, neck, and back muscles. Akathisia causes restlessness, anxiety, and jitteriness.
Answer: (B) Advising the client to sit up for 1 minute before getting out of bed. To minimize the effects of amitriptyline-induced orthostatic hypotension, the nurse should advise the client to sit up for 1 minute before getting out of bed. Orthostatic hypotension commonly occurs with tricyclic antidepressant therapy. In these cases, the dosage may be reduced or the physician may prescribe nortriptyline, another tricyclic antidepressant. Orthostatic hypotension disappears only when the drug is discontinued.
Answer: (D) Dysthymic disorder. Dysthymic disorder is marked by feelings of depression lasting at least 2 years, accompanied by at least two of the following symptoms: sleep disturbance, appetite disturbance, low energy or fatigue, low selfesteem, poor concentration, difficulty making decisions, and hopelessness. These symptoms may be relatively continuous or separated by intervening periods of normal mood that last a few days to a few weeks. Cyclothymic disorder is a chronic mood disturbance of at least 2 years’ duration marked by numerous periods of depression and hypomania. Atypical affective disorder is characterized by manic signs and symptoms. Major depression is a recurring, persistent sadness or loss of interest or pleasure in almost all activities, with signs and symptoms recurring for at least 2 weeks.
Answer: (C) 30 g mixed in 250 ml of water.  The usual adult dosage of activated charcoal is 5 to 10 times the estimated weight of the drug or chemical ingested, or a minimum dose of 30 g, mixed in 250 ml of water. Doses less than this will be ineffective; doses greater than this can increase the risk of adverse reactions, although toxicity doesn’t occur with activated charcoal, even at the maximum dose.
Answer: (C) St. John’s wort. St. John’s wort has been found to have serotonin-elevating properties, similar to prescription antidepressants. Ginkgo biloba is prescribed to enhance mental acuity. Echinacea has immune-stimulating properties. Ephedra is a naturally occurring stimulant that is similar to ephedrine.
Answer: (B) Sodium. Lithium is chemically similar to sodium. If sodium levels are reduced, such as from sweating or diuresis, lithium will be reabsorbed by the kidneys, increasing the risk of toxicity. Clients taking lithium shouldn’t restrict their intake of sodium and should drink adequate amounts of fluid each day. The other electrolytes are important for normal body functions but sodium is most important to the absorption of lithium.
Answer: (D) It’s characterized by an acute onset and lasts hours to a number of days. Delirium has an acute onset and typically can last from several hours to several days.
Answer: (B) Impaired communication. Initially, memory impairment may be the only cognitive deficit in a client with Alzheimer’s disease. During the early stage of this disease, subtle personality changes may also be present. However, other than occasional irritable outbursts and lack of spontaneity, the client is usually cooperative and exhibits socially appropriate behavior. Signs of advancement to the middle stage of Alzheimer’s disease include exacerbated cognitive impairment with obvious personality changes and impaired communication, such as inappropriate conversation, actions, and responses. During the late stage, the client can’t perform self-care activities and may become mute.
Answer: (D) This medication may initially cause tiredness, which should become less bothersome over time. Sedation is a common early adverse effect of imipramine, a tricyclic antidepressant, and usually decreases as tolerance develops. Antidepressants aren’t habit forming and don’t cause physical or psychological dependence. However, after a long course of high-dose therapy, the dosage should be decreased gradually to avoid mild withdrawal symptoms. Serious adverse effects, although rare, include myocardial infarction, heart failure, and tachycardia. Dietary restrictions, such as avoiding aged cheeses, yogurt, and chicken livers, are necessary for a client taking a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, not a tricyclic antidepressant.
Answer: (C) Monitor vital signs, serum electrolyte levels, and acid-base balance. An anorexic client who requires hospitalization is in poor physical condition from starvation and may die as a result of arrhythmias, hypothermia, malnutrition, infection, or cardiac abnormalities secondary to electrolyte imbalances. Therefore, monitoring the client’s vital signs, serum electrolyte level, and acid base balance is crucial. Option A may worsen anxiety. Option B is incorrect because a weight obtained after breakfast is more accurate than one obtained after the evening meal. Option D would reward the client with attention for not eating and reinforce the control issues that are central to the underlying psychological problem; also, the client may record food and fluid intake inaccurately.
Answer: (D) Opioid withdrawal. The symptoms listed are specific to opioid withdrawal. Alcohol withdrawal would show elevated vital signs. There is no real withdrawal from cannibis. Symptoms of cocaine withdrawal include depression, anxiety, and agitation.
Answer: (A) Regression. An adult who throws temper tantrums, such as this one, is displaying regressive behavior, or behavior that is appropriate at a younger age. In projection, the client blames someone or something other than the source. In reaction formation, the client acts in opposition to his feelings. In intellectualization, the client overuses rational explanations orabstract thinking to decrease the significance of a feeling or event.
Answer: (A) Abnormal movements and involuntary movements of the mouth, tongue, and face. Tardive dyskinesia is a severe reaction associated with long term use of antipsychotic medication. The clinical manifestations include abnormal movements (dyskinesia) and involuntary movements of the mouth, tongue (fly catcher tongue), and face.
Answer: (C) Blurred vision. At lithium levels of 2 to 2.5 mEq/L the client will experienced blurred vision, muscle twitching, severe hypotension, and persistent nausea and vomiting. With levels between 1.5 and 2 mEq/L the client experiencing vomiting, diarrhea, muscle weakness, ataxia, dizziness, slurred speech, and confusion. At lithium levels of 2.5 to 3 mEq/L or higher, urinary and fecal incontinence occurs, as well as seizures, cardiac dysrythmias, peripheral vascular collapse, and death.
Answer: (C) No acts of aggression have been observed within 1 hour after the release of two of the extremity restraints. The best indicator that the behavior is controlled, if the client exhibits no signs of aggression after partial release of restraints. Options A, B, and D do not ensure that the client has controlled the behavior.
Answer: (A) increased attention span and concentration. The medication has a paradoxic effect that decrease hyperactivity and impulsivity among children with ADHD. B, C, D. Side effects of Ritalin include anorexia, insomnia, diarrhea and irritability.
Answer: (C) Moderate. The child with moderate mental retardation has an I.Q. of 35- 50 Profound Mental retardation has an I.Q. of below 20; Mild mental retardation 50-70 and Severe mental retardation has an I.Q. of 20-35.
Answer: (D) Rearrange the environment to activate the child. The child with autistic disorder does not want change. Maintaining a consistent environment is therapeutic. A. Angry outburst can be re-channeling through safe activities. B. Acceptance enhances a trusting relationship. C. Ensure safety from self-destructive behaviors like head banging and hair pulling.
Answer: (B) cocaine. The manifestations indicate intoxication with cocaine, a CNS stimulant. A. Intoxication with heroine is manifested by euphoria then impairment in judgment, attention and the presence of papillary constriction. C. Intoxication with hallucinogen like LSD is manifested by grandiosity, hallucinations, synesthesia and increase in vital signs D. Intoxication with Marijuana, a cannabinoid is manifested by sensation of slowed time, conjunctival redness, social withdrawal, impaired judgment and hallucinations.
Answer: (B) insidious onset. Dementia has a gradual onset and progressive deterioration. It causes pronounced memory and cognitive disturbances. A,C and D are all characteristics of delirium.
Answer: (C) Claustrophobia. Claustrophobia is fear of closed space. A. Agoraphobia is fear of open space or being a situation where escape is difficult. B. Social phobia is fear of performing in the presence of others in a way that will be humiliating or embarrassing. D. Xenophobia is fear of strangers.
Answer: (A) Revealing personal information to the client. Counter-transference is an emotional reaction of the nurse on the client based on her unconscious needs and conflicts. B and C. These are therapeutic approaches. D. This is transference reaction where a client has an emotional reaction towards the nurse based on her past.
Answer: (D) Hold the next dose and obtain an order for a stat serum lithium level. Diarrhea and vomiting are manifestations of Lithium toxicity. The next dose of lithium should be withheld and test is done to validate the observation. A. The manifestations are not due to drug interaction. B. Cogentin is used to manage the extra pyramidal symptom side effects of antipsychotics. C. The common side effects of Lithium are fine hand tremors, nausea, polyuria and polydipsia.
Answer: (C) A living, learning or working environment. A therapeutic milieu refers to a broad conceptual approach in which all aspects of the environment are channeled to provide a therapeutic environment for the client. The six environmental elements include structure, safety, norms; limit setting, balance and unit modification. A. Behavioral approach in psychiatric care is based on the premise that behavior can be learned or unlearned through the use of reward and punishment. B. Cognitive approach to change behavior is done by correcting distorted perceptions and irrational beliefs to correct maladaptive behaviors. D. This is not congruent with therapeutic milieu.
Answer: (B) Transference. Transference is a positive or negative feeling associated with a significant person in the client’s past that are unconsciously assigned to another A. Splitting is a defense mechanism commonly seen in a client with personality disorder in which the world is perceived as all good or all bad C. Countert-transference is a phenomenon where the nurse shifts feelings assigned to someone in her past to the patient D. Resistance is the client’s refusal to submit himself to the care of the nurse
Answer: (B) Adventitious. Adventitious crisis is a crisis involving a traumatic event. It is not part of everyday life. A. Situational crisis is from an external source that upset ones psychological equilibrium C and D. Are the same. They are transitional or developmental periods in life
Answer: (C) Major depression. The DSM-IV-TR classifies major depression as an Axis I disorder. Borderline personality disorder as an Axis II; obesity and hypertension, Axis III.
Answer: (B) Transference. Transference is the unconscious assignment of negative or positive feelings evoked by a significant person in the client’s past to another person. Intellectualization is a defense mechanism in which the client avoids dealing with emotions by focusing on facts. Triangulation refers to conflicts involving three family members. Splitting is a defense mechanism commonly seen in clients with personality disorder in which the world is perceived as all good or all bad.
Answer: (B) Hypochondriasis. Complains of vague physical symptoms that have no apparent medical causes are characteristic of clients with hypochondriasis. In many cases, the GI system is affected. Conversion disorders are characterized by one or more neurologic symptoms. The client’s symptoms don’t suggest severe anxiety. A client experiencing sublimation channels maladaptive feelings or impulses into socially acceptable behavior
Answer: (C) Hypochondriasis. Hypochodriasis in this case is shown by the client’s belief that she has a serious illness, although pathologic causes have been eliminated. The disturbance usually lasts at lease 6 with identifiable life stressor such as, in this case, course examinations. Conversion disorders are characterized by one or more neurologic symptoms. Depersonalization refers to persistent recurrent episodes of feeling detached from one’s self or body. Somatoform disorders generally have a chronic course with few remissions.
Answer: (A) Triazolam (Halcion). Triazolam is one of a group of sedative hypnotic medication that can be used for a limited time because of the risk of dependence. Paroxetine is a scrotonin-specific reutake inhibitor used for treatment of depression panic disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Fluoxetine is a scrotonin-specific reuptake inhibitor used for depressive disorders and obsessive-compulsive disorders. Risperidome is indicated for psychotic disorders.
Answer: (D) It promotes emotional support or attention for the client. Secondary gain refers to the benefits of the illness that allow the client to receive emotional support or attention. Primary gain enables the client to avoid some unpleasant activity. A dysfunctional family may disregard the real issue, although some conflict is relieved. Somatoform pain disorder is a preoccupation with pain in the absence of physical disease.
Answer: (A) “I went to the mall with my friends last Saturday”. Clients with panic disorder tent to be socially withdrawn. Going to the mall is a sign of working on avoidance behaviors. Hyperventilating is a key symptom of panic disorder. Teaching breathing control is a major intervention for clients with panic disorder. The client taking medications for panic disorder; such as tricylic antidepressants and benzodiazepines, must be weaned off these drugs. Most clients with panic disorder with agoraphobia don’t have nutritional problems.
Answer: (A) “I’m sleeping better and don’t have nightmares” MAO inhibitors are used to treat sleep problems, nightmares, and intrusive daytime thoughts in individual with posttraumatic stress disorder. MAO inhibitors aren’t used to help control flashbacks or phobias or to decrease the craving for alcohol.
Answer: (D) Stopping the drug can cause withdrawal symptoms. Stopping antianxiety drugs such as benzodiazepines can cause the client to have withdrawal symptoms. Stopping a benzodiazepine doesn’t tend to cause depression, increase cognitive abilities, or decrease sleeping difficulties.
Answer: (B) Behavioral difficulties. Adolescents tend to demonstrate severe irritability and behavioral problems rather than simply a depressed mood. Anxiety disorder is more commonly associated with small children rather than with adolescents. Cognitive impairment is typically associated with delirium or dementia. Labile mood is more characteristic of a client with cognitive impairment or bipolar disorder.
Answer: (D) It’s a mood disorder similar to major depression but of mild to moderate severity. Dysthymic disorder is a mood disorder similar to major depression but it remains mild to moderate in severity. Cyclothymic disorder is a mood disorder characterized by a mood range from moderate depression to hypomania. Bipolar I disorder is characterized by a single manic episode with no past major depressive episodes. Seasonalaffective disorder is a form of depression occurring in the fall and winter.
Answer: (A) Vascular dementia has more abrupt onset.  Vascular dementia differs from Alzheimer’s disease in that it has a more abrupt onset and runs a highly variable course. Personally change is common in Alzheimer’s disease. The duration of delirium is usually brief. The inability to carry out motor activities is common in Alzheimer’s disease.
Answer: (C) Drug intoxication. This client was taking several medications that have a propensity for producing delirium; digoxin (a digitalis glycoxide), furosemide (a thiazide diuretic), and diazepam (a benzodiazepine). Sufficient supporting data don’t exist to suspect the other options as causes.
Answer: (D) The client is experiencing visual hallucination. The presence of a sensory stimulus correlates with the definition of a hallucination, which is a false sensory perception. Aphasia refers to a communication problem. Dysarthria is difficulty in speech production. Flight of ideas is rapid shifting from one topic to another.
Answer: (D) The client looks at the shadow on a wall and tells the nurse she sees frightening faces on the wall. Minor memory problems are distinguished from dementia by their minor severity and their lack of significant interference with the client’s social or occupational lifestyle. Other options would be included in the history data but don’t directly correlate with the client’s lifestyle.
Answer: (D) Loose association. Loose associations are conversations that constantly shift in topic. Concrete thinking implies highly definitive thought processes. Flight of ideas is characterized by conversation that’s disorganized from the onset. Loose associations don’t necessarily start in a cogently, then becomes loose.
Answer: (C) Paranoid. Because of their suspiciousness, paranoid personalities ascribe malevolent activities to others and tent to be defensive, becoming quarrelsome and argumentative. Clients with antisocial personality disorder can also be antagonistic and argumentative but are less suspicious than paranoid personalities. Clients with histrionic personality disorder are dramatic, not suspicious and argumentative. Clients with schizoid personality disorder are usually detached from other and tend to have eccentric behavior.
Answer: (C) Explain that the drug is less affective if the client smokes. Olanzapine (Zyprexa) is less effective for clients who smoke cigarettes. Serotonin syndrome occurs with clients who take a combination of antidepressant medications. Olanzapine doesn’t cause euphoria, and extrapyramidal adverse reactions aren’t a problem. However, the client should be aware of adverse effects such as tardive dyskinesia.
Answer: (A) Lack of honesty. Clients with antisocial personality disorder tent to engage in acts of dishonesty, shown by lying. Clients with schizotypal personality disorder tend to be superstitious. Clients with histrionic personality disorders tend to overreact to frustrations and disappointments, have temper tantrums, and seek attention.
Answer: (A) “I’m not going to look just at the negative things about myself”. As the clients makes progress on improving self-esteem, selfblame and negative self evaluation will decrease. Clients with dependent personality disorder tend to feel fragile and inadequate and would be extremely unlikely to discuss their level of competence and progress. These clients focus on self and aren’t envious or jealous. Individuals with dependent personality disorders don’t take over situations because they see themselves as inept and inadequate.
Answer: (C) Assess for possible physical problems such as rash. Clients with schizophrenia generally have poor visceral recognition because they live so fully in their fantasy world. They need to have as in-depth assessment of physical complaints that may spill over into their delusional symptoms. Talking with the client won’t provide as assessment of his itching, and itching isn’t as adverse reaction of antipsychotic drugs, calling the physician to get the client’s medication increased doesn’t address his physical complaints.
Answer: (B) Echopraxia. Echopraxia is the copying of another’s behaviors and is the result of the loss of ego boundaries. Modeling is the conscious copying of someone’s behaviors. Ego-syntonicity refers to behaviors that correspond with the individual’s sense of self. Ritualism behaviors are repetitive and compulsive.
Answer: (C) Hallucination. Hallucinations are sensory experiences that are misrepresentations of reality or have no basis in reality. Delusions are beliefs not based in reality. Disorganized speech is characterized by jumping from one topic to the next or using unrelated words. An idea of reference is a belief that an unrelated situation holds special meaning for the client.
Answer: (C) Regression. Regression, a return to earlier behavior to reduce anxiety, is the basic defense mechanism in schizophrenia. Projection is a defense mechanism in which one blames others and attempts to justify actions; it’s used primarily by people with paranoid schizophrenia and delusional disorder. Rationalization is a defense mechanism used to justify one’s action. Repression is the basic defense mechanism in the neuroses; it’s an involuntary exclusion of painful thoughts, feelings, or experiences from awareness.
Answer: (A) Should report feelings of restlessness or agitation at once. Agitation and restlessness are adverse effect of haloperidol and can be treated with antocholinergic drugs. Haloperidol isn’t likely to cause photosensitivity or control essential hypertension. Although the client may experience increased concentration and activity, these effects are due to a decreased in symptoms, not the drug itself.