1. A client asks the nurse what a third degree laceration is. She was informed that she had one. The nurse explains that this is:

that extended their anal sphincter
through the skin and into the muscles
that involves anterior rectal wall
that extends through the perineal muscle.
2. Betina 30 weeks AOG discharged with a diagnosis of placenta previa. The nurse knows that the client understands her care at home when she says:

I am happy to note that we can have sex occasionally when I have no bleeding.
I am afraid I might have an operation when my due comes
I will have to remain in bed until my due date comes
I may go back to work since I stay only at the office.
3. The uterus has already risen out of the pelvis and is experiencing farther into the abdominal area at about the:

8th week of pregnancy
10th week of pregnancy
12th week of pregnancy
18th week of pregnancy
4. Which of the following urinary symptoms does the pregnant woman most frequently experience during the first trimester:

frequency
dysuria
incontinence
burning
5. Mrs. Jimenez went to the health center for pre-natal check-up. the student nurse took her weight and revealed 142 lbs. She asked the student nurse how much should she gain weight in her pregnancy.

20-30 lbs
25-35 lbs
30- 40 lbs
10-15 lbs
6. The nurse is preparing Mrs. Jordan for cesarean delivery. Which of the following key concept should the nurse consider when implementing nursing care?

Explain the surgery, expected outcome and kind of anesthetics.
Modify preoperative teaching to meet the needs of either a planned or emergency cesarean birth.
Arrange for a staff member of the anesthesia department to explain what to expect post-operatively.
Instruct the mother’s support person to remain in the family lounge until after the delivery.
7. Bettine Gonzales is hospitalized for the treatment of severe preecplampsia. Which of the following represents an unusual finding for this condition?

generalized edema
proteinuria 4+
blood pressure of 160/110
convulsions
8. Nurse Geli explains to the client who is 33 weeks pregnant and is experiencing vaginal bleeding that coitus:

Need to be modified in any way by either partner
Is permitted if penile penetration is not deep.
Should be restricted because it may stimulate uterine activity.
Is safe as long as she is in side-lying position.
9. Mrs. Precilla Abuel, a 32 year old mulripara is admitted to labor and delivery. Her last 3 pregnancies in short stage one of labor. The nurses decide to observe her closely. The physician determines that Mrs. Abuel’s cervix is dilated to 6 cm. Mrs. Abuel states that she is extremely uncomfortable. To lessen Mrs. Abuel’s discomfort, the nurse can advise her to:

lie face down
not drink fluids
practice holding breaths between contractions
assume Sim’s position
10. Which is true regarding the fontanels of the newborn?

The anterior is large in shape when compared to the posterior fontanel.
The anterior is triangular shaped; the posterior is diamond shaped.
The anterior is bulging; the posterior appears sunken.
The posterior closes at 18 months; the anterior closes at 8 to 12 months.
11. Mrs. Quijones gave birth by spontaneous delivery to a full term baby boy. After a minute after birth, he is crying and moving actively. His birth weight is 6.8 lbs. What do you expect baby Quijones to weigh at 6 months?

13 -14 lbs
16 -17 lbs
22 -23 lbs
27 -28 lbs
12. During the first hours following delivery, the post partum client is given IVF with oxytocin added to them. The nurse understands the primary reason for this is:

To facilitate elimination
To promote uterine contraction
To promote analgesia
To prevent infection
13. Nurse Luis is assessing the newborn’s heart rate. Which of the following would be considered normal if the newborn is sleeping?

80 beats per minute
100 beats per minute
120 beats per minute
140 beats per minute
14. The infant with Down Syndrome should go through which of the Erikson’s developmental stages first?

Initiative vs. Self doubt
Industry vs. Inferiority
Autonomy vs. Shame and doubt
Trust vs. Mistrust
15. The child with phenylketonuria (PKU) must maintain a low phenylalanine diet to prevent which of the following complications?

Irreversible brain damage
Kidney failure
Blindness
Neutropenia
16. Which age group is with imaginative minds and creates imaginary friends?

Toddler
Preschool
School
Adolescence
17. Which of the following situations would alert you to a potentially developmental problem with a child?

Pointing to body parts at 15 months of age.
Using gesture to communicate at 18 months.
Cooing at 3 months.
Saying “mama” or “dada” for the first time at 18 months of age.
18. Isabelle, a 2 year old girl loves to move around and oftentimes manifests negativism and temper tantrums. What is the best way to deal with her behavior?

Tell her that she would not be loved by others is she behaves that way..
Withholding giving her toys until she behaves properly.
Ignore her behavior as long as she does not hurt herself and others.
Ask her what she wants and give it to pacify her.
19. Baby boy Villanueva, 4 months old, was seen at the pediatric clinic for his scheduled check-up. By this period, baby Villanueva has already increased his height by how many inches?

3 inches
4 inches
5 inches
6 inches
20. Alice, 10 years old was brought to the ER because of Asthma. She was immediately put under aerosol administration of Terbutaline. After sometime, you observe that the child does not show any relief from the treatment given. Upon assessment, you noticed that both the heart and respiratory rate are still elevated and the child shows difficulty of exhaling. You suspect:

Bronchiectasis
Atelectasis
Epiglotitis
Status Asthmaticus
21. Nurse Jonas assesses a 2 year old boy with a tentative diagnosis of nephroblastoma. Symptoms the nurse observes that suggest this problem include:

Lymphedema and nerve palsy
Hearing loss and ataxia
Headaches and vomiting
Abdominal mass and weakness
22. Which of the following danger sings should be reported immediately during the antepartum period?

blurred vision
nasal stuffiness
breast tenderness
constipation
23. Nurse Jacob is assessing a 15 month old child with acute otitis media. Which of the following symptoms would the nurse anticipate finding?

periorbital edema, absent light reflex and translucent tympanic membrane
irritability, purulent drainage in middle ear, nasal congestion and cough
diarrhea, retracted tympanic membrane and enlarged parotid gland
Vomiting, pulling at ears and pearly white tympanic membrane
24. Which of the following is the most appropriate intervention to reduce stress in a preterm infant at 33 weeks gestation?

Sensory stimulation including several senses at a time
tactile stimulation until signs of over stimulation develop
An attitude of extension when prone or side lying
Kangaroo care
25. The parent of a client with albinism would need to be taught which preventive healthcare measure by the nurse:

Ulcerative colitis diet
Use of a high-SPF sunblock
Hair loss monitoring
Monitor for growth retardation