Situation 1: Raphael, a 6 year’s old prep pupil is seen at the school clinic for growth and development monitoring (Questions 1-5) 1. Which of the following is characterized the rate of growth during this period?

most rapid period of growth
a decline in growth rate
growth spurt
slow uniform growth rate
2. In assessing Raphael’s growth and development, the nurse is guided by principles of growth and development. Which is not included?

All individuals follow cephalo-caudal and proximo-distal
Different parts of the body grows at different rate
All individual follow standard growth rate
Rate and pattern of growth can be modified
3. What type of play will be ideal for Raphael at this period?

Make believe
Hide and seek
Peek-a-boo
Building blocks
4. Which of the following information indicate that Raphael is normal for his age?

Determine own sense self
Develop sense of whether he can trust the world
Has the ability to try new things
Learn basic skills within his culture
5. Based on Kohlberg’s theory, what is the stage of moral development of Raphael?

Punishment-obedience
“good boy-Nice girl”
naïve instrumental orientation
social contact
Situation 2 Baby boy Lacson delivered at 36 weeks gestation weighs 3,400 gm and height of 59 cm (6-10). 6. Baby boy Lacson’s height is

Long
Short
Average
Too short
7. Growth and development in a child progresses in the following ways EXCEPT

From cognitive to psychosexual
From trunk to the tip of the extremities
From head to toe
From general to specific
8. As described by Erikson, the major psychosexual conflict of the above situation is

Autonomy vs. Shame and doubt
Industry vs. Inferiority
Trust vs. mistrust
Initiation vs. guilt
9. Which of the following is true about Mongolian Spots?

Disappears in about a year
Are linked to pathologic conditions
Are managed by tropical steroids
Are indicative of parental abuse
10. Signs of cold stress that the nurse must be alert when caring for a Newborn is:

Hypothermia
Decreased activity level
Shaking
Increased RR
Situation 3 Nursing care after delivery has an important aspect in every stages of delivery. 11. After the baby is delivered, the cord was cut between two clamps using a sterile scissors and blade, then the baby is placed at the:

Mother’s breast
Mother’s side
Give it to the grandmother
Baby’s own mat or bed
12. The baby’s mother is RH(-). Which of the following laboratory tests will probably be ordered for the newborn?

Direct Coomb’s
Indirect Coomb’s
Blood culture
Platelet count
13. Hypothermia is common in newborn because of their inability to control heat. The following would be an appropriate nursing intervention to prevent heat loss except:

Place the crib beside the wall
Doing Kangaroo care
By using mechanical pressure
Drying and wrapping the baby
14. The following conditions are caused by cold stress except

Hypoglycemia
Increase ICP
Metabolic acidosis
Cerebral palsy
15. During the feto-placental circulation, the shunt between two atria is called

Ductus venosous
Foramen Magnum
Ductus arteriosus
Foramen Ovale
16. What would cause the closure of the Foramen ovale after the baby had been delivered?

Decreased blood flow
Shifting of pressures from right side to the left side of the heart
Increased PO2
Increased in oxygen saturation
17. Failure of the Foramen Ovale to close will cause what Congenital Heart Disease?

Total anomalous Pulmunary Artery
Atrial Septal defect
Transposition of great arteries
Pulmunary Stenosis
Situation 4 Children are vulnerable to some minor health problems or injuries hence the nurse should be able to teach mothers to give appropriate home care. 18. A mother brought her child to the clinic with nose bleeding. The nurse showed the mother the most appropriate position for the child which is:

Sitting up
With low back rest
With moderate back rest
Lying semi flat
19. A common problem in children is the inflammation of the middle ear. This is related to the malfunctioning of the:

Tympanic membrane
Eustachian tube
Adenoid
Nasopharynx
20. For acute otitis media, the treatment is prompt antibiotic therapy. Delayed treatment may result in complications of:

Tonsillitis
Eardrum Problems
Brain damage
Diabetes mellitus
21. When assessing gross motor development in a 3 year old, which of the following activities would the nurse expect to finds?

Riding a tricycle
Hopping on one foot
Catching a ball
Skipping on alternate foot.
22. When assessing the weight of a 5-month old, which of the following indicates healthy growth?

Doubling of birth weight
Tripling of birth weight
Quadrupling of birth weight
Stabilizing of birth weight
23. An appropriate toy for a 4 year old child is:

Push-pull toys
Card games
Doctor and nurse kits
Books and Crafts
24. Which of the following statements would the nurse expects a 5-year old boy to say whose pet gerbil just died

“The boogieman got him”
“He’s just a bit dead”
“Ill be good from now own so I wont die like my gerbil”
“Did you hear the joke about…”
25. When assessing the fluid and electrolyte balance in an infant, which of the following would be important to remember?

Infant can concentrate urine at an adult level
The metabolic rate of an infant is slower than in adults
Infants have more intracellular water that adult do
Infant have greater body surface area than adults
26. When assessing a child with aspirin overdose, which of the following will be expected?

Metabolic alkalosis
Respiratory alkalosis
Metabolic acidosis
Respiratory acidosis
27. Which of the following is not a possible systemic clinical manifestation of severe burns?

Growth retardation
Hypermetabolism
Sepsis
Blisters and edema
28. When assessing a family for potential child abuse risks, the nurse would observe for which of the following?

Periodic exposure to stress
Low socio-economic status
High level of self esteem
Problematic pregnancies
29. Which of the following is a possible indicator of Munchausen syndrome by proxy type of child abuse?

Bruises found at odd locations, with different stages of healing
STD’s and genital discharges
Unexplained symptoms of diarrhea, vomiting and apnea with no organic basis
Constant hunger and poor hygiene
30. Which of the following is an inappropriate interventions when caring for a child with HIV?

Teaching family about disease transmission
Offering large amount of fresh fruits and vegetables
Encouraging child to perform at optimal level
Teach proper hand washing technique
Situation 5 Agata, 2 years old is rushed to the ER due to cyanosis precipitated by crying. Her mother observed that after playing she gets tired. She was diagnosed with Tetralogy of Fallot. 31. The goal of nursing care for Agata is to:

Prevent infection
Promote normal growth and development
Decrease hypoxic spells
Hydrate adequately
32. The immediate nursing intervention for cyanosis of Agata is:

Call up the pediatrician
Place her in knee chest position
Administer oxygen inhalation
Transfer her to the PICU
33. Agata was scheduled for a palliative surgery, which creates anastomosis of the subclavian artery to the pulmonary artery. This procedure is:

Waterston-Cooley
Raskkind Procedure
Coronary artery bypass
Blalock-Taussig
34. Which of the following is not an indicator that Agata experiences separation anxiety brought about her hospitalization?

Friendly with the nurse
Prolonged loud crying, consoled only by mother
Occasional temper tantrums and always says NO
Repeatedly verbalizes desire to go home
35. When Agata was brought to the OR, her parents where crying. What would be the most appropriate nursing diagnosis?

Infective family coping r/t situational crisis
Anxiety r/t powerlessness
Fear r/t uncertain prognosis
Anticipatory grieving r/t gravity of child’s physical status
36. Which of the following respiratory condition is always considered a medical emergency?

Laryngeotracheobronchitis (LTB)
Epiglottitis
Asthma
Cystic Fibrosis
37. Which of the following statements by the family of a child with asthma indicates a need for additional teaching?

“We need to identify what things triggers his attacks”
“He is to use bronchodilator inhaler before steroid inhaler”
“We’ll make sure he avoids exercise to prevent asthma attacks”
“he should increase his fluid intake regularly to thin secretions”
38. Which of the following would require careful monitoring in the child with ADHD who is receiving Methylphenidate (Ritalin)?

Dental health
Mouth dryness
Height and weight
Excessive appetite
Situation 6 Laura is assigned as the Team Leader during the immunization day at the RHU. 39. What program for the DOH is launched at 1976 in cooperation with WHO and UNICEF to reduce morbidity and mortality among infants caused by immunizable disease?

Patak day
Immunization day on Wednesday
Expanded program on immunization
Bakuna ng kabtaan
40. One important principle of the immunization program is based on?

Statistical occurrence
Epidemiologic situation
Cold chain management
Surveillance study
41. The main element of immunization program is one of the following?

Information, education and communication
Assessment and evaluation of the program
Research studies
Target setting
42. What does herd immunity means?

Interruption of transmission
All to be vaccinated
Selected group for vaccination
Shorter incubation
43. Measles vaccine can be given simultaneously. What is the combined vaccine to be given to children starting at 15 months?

MCG
MMR
BCG
BBR
Situation 7: Braguda brought her 5-month old daughter in the nearest RHU because her baby sleeps most of the time, with decreased appetite, has colds and fever for more than a week. The physician diagnosed pneumonia. 44. Based on this data given by Braguda, you can classify Braguda’s daughter to have:

Pneumonia: cough and colds
Severe pneumonia
Very severe pneumonia
Pneumonia moderate
45. For a 3-month old child to be classified to have Pneumonia (not severe), you would expect to find RR of:

60 bpm
40 bpm
70 bpm
50 pbm
46. You asked Braguda if her baby received all vaccines under EPI. What legal basis is used in implementing the UN’s goal on Universal Child Immunization?

PD no. 996
PD no. 6
PD no. 46
RA 9173
47. Braguda asks you about Vitamin A supplementation. You responded that giving Vitamin A starts when the infant reaches 6 months and the first dose is”

200,000 “IU”
100,000 “IU”
500,000 “IU”
10,000 “IU”
48. As part of CARI program, assessment of the child is your main responsibility. You could ask the following question to the mother except:

“How old is the child?”
“IS the child coughing? For how long?”
“Did the child have chest indrawing?”
“Did the child have fever? For how long?”
49. A newborn’s failure to pass meconium within 24 hours after birth may indicate which of the following?

Aganglionic Mega colon
Celiac disease
Intussusception
Abdominal wall defect
50. The nurse understands that a good snack for a 2 year old with a diagnosis of acute asthma would be:

Grapes
Apple slices
A glass of milk
A glass of cola
51. Which of the following immunizations would the nurse expect to administer to a child who is HIV (+) and severely immunocomromised?

Varicella
Rotavirus
MMR
IPV
52. When assessing a newborn for developmental dysplasia of the hip, the nurse would expect to assess which of the following?

Symmetrical gluteal folds
Trendelemburg sign
Ortolani’s sign
Characteristic limp
53. While assessing a male neonate whose mother desires him to be circumcised, the nurse observes that the neonate’s urinary meatus appears to be located on the ventral surface of the penis. The physician is notified because the nurse would suspect which of the following?

Phimosis
Hydrocele
Epispadias
Hypospadias
54. When teaching a group of parents about seat belt use, when would the nurse state that the child be safely restrained in a regular automobile seatbelt?

30 lb and 30 in
35 lb and 3 y/o
40 lb and 40 in
60 lb and 6 y/o
55. When assessing a newborn with cleft lip, the nurse would be alert which of the following will most likely be compromised?

Sucking ability
Respiratory status
Locomotion
GI function
56. For a child with recurring nephritic syndrome, which of the following areas of potential disturbances should be a prime consideration when planning ongoing nursing care?

Muscle coordination
Sexual maturation
Intellectual development
Body image
57. An inborn error of metabolism that causes premature destruction of RBC?

G6PD
Hemocystinuria
Phenylketonuria
Celiac Disease
58. Which of the following would be a diagnostic test for Phenylketonuria which uses fresh urine mixed with ferric chloride?

Guthrie Test
Phenestix test
Beutler’s test
Coomb’s test
59. Dietary restriction in a child who has Hemocystenuria will include which of the following amino acid?

Lysine
Methionine
Isolensine tryptophase
Valine
60. A milk formula that you can suggest for a child with Galactosemia:

Lofenalac
Lactum
Neutramigen
Sustagen