D. The Heimlich flutter valve has a one-way valve that allows air and fluid to drain. Underwater seal drainage is not necessary. This can be connected to a drainage bag for the patient’s mobility. The absence of a long drainage tubing and the presence of a one-way valve promote effective therapy
C. C = the normal CVP is 0-8 mmHg. This value reflects hypervolemia. The right ventricular function of this client reflects fluid volume overload, and the physician should be notified.
C. A hot tub bath or shower in the morning helps many patients limber up and reduces the symptoms of early morning stiffness. Cold and ice packs are used to a lesser degree, though some clients state that cold decreases localized pain, particularly during acute attacks.
D. These substances stimulate the production of hydrochloric acid, which is detrimental in peptic ulcer disease.
D. The three-point gait is appropriate when weight bearing is not allowed on the affected limb. The swing-to and swing-through crutch gaits may also be used when only one leg can be used for weight bearing
A. The client needs to be told before surgery that the catheter causes the urge to void. Attempts to void around the catheter cause the bladder muscles to contract and result in painful spasms.
B. Bland feedings should be given in small amounts on a frequent basis to neutralize the hydrochloric acid and to prevent overload
C. Chilling the tube before insertion assists in relieving some of the nasal discomfort. Water-soluble lubricants along with viscous lidocaine (Xylocaine) may also be used. It is usually only lightly lubricated before insertion
B. Whole milk should be avoided to include in the client’s diet because it has 120 mg of sodium in 8 0z of milk.
A. Alcohol is extremely drying and contributes to skin break down. An emollient lotion should be used.
D.  Potassium influences the excitability of nerves and muscles. When potassium is low and the client is on digoxin, the risk of digoxin toxicity is increased.
C. This position allows maximum expansion, ventilation, and perfusion of the remaining lung.
A. These foods are high in potassium
B. Stress on the suture line should be avoided. Prevent flexion or hyperextension of the neck, and provide a small pillow under thehead and neck. Neck muscles have been affected during a thyroidectomy, support essential for comfort and incisional support.
A. A positive nitrogen balance is important for meeting metabolic needs, tissue repair, and resistance to infection. Caloric goals may be as high as 5000 calories per day.
C. The best early intervention would be to increase fluid intake, because constipation is common when activity is decreased or usual routines have been interrupted.
A. Because the client’s ability is to react to stress is decreased, maintaining a quiet environment becomes A nursing priority. Dehydration is a common problem in Addison’s disease, so close observation of the client’s hydration level is crucial. To promote optimal hydration and sodium intake, fluid intake is increased, particularly fluid containing electrolytes, such as broths, carbonated beverages, and juices.
C. At about 48-72 hours, the client must be turned onto the abdomen to prevent flexion contractures.
B. The client should not drive for 2 weeks after surgery to avoid stress on the incision. This reflects a need for additional teaching.
A. Extremes in heat and cold will exacerbate symptoms. Heat delays transmission of impulses and increases fatigue.
A. Vigilant implementation of standard precautions and medical asepsis is an effective means of preventing infection
C. Noncompliance is a major problem in the management of chronic disease. In hypertension, the client often does not feel ill and thus does not see a need to follow a treatment regimen.
B. An accumulation of blood from the kidney into the abdomen would manifest itself with these symptoms
D. Fluids liquefy secretions and therefore make it easier to expectorate
D. Physical assessment guidelines recommend listening for atleast 2 minutes in each quadrant (and up to 5 minutes, not at least 5 minutes).
A. Compression stockings promote venous return and prevent peripheral pooling.
A. Placing food in the unaffected side of the mouth assists in the swallowing process because the client has sensation on that side and will have more control over the swallowing process.
D. Daily weights are taken following nephrectomy. Daily increases of 2 lb or more are indicative of fluid retention and should be reported to the physician. Intake and output records may also reflect this imbalance.
A. Clients with cirrhosis have already coagulation due to thrombocytopenia and vitamin K deficiency. This could be a sign of bleeding
B. Exercise enhances glucose uptake, and the client is at risk for an insulin reaction. Snacks with carbohydrates will help.
C. These are symptoms of diabetes insipidus. The patient can become hypovolemic and vasopressin may reverse the Polyuria.
D. Peripheral neuropathy refers to nerve damage of the hands and feet. The client did not notice that the object pierced the skin.
A. The elevation of the stump on a pillow for the first 24 hours decreases edema and increases venous return.
B. The priority is to maintain client’s safety. With syncope and vertigo, the client is at high risk for falling.
D. Coughing and deep breathing are essential for re-expansion of the lung
B. Avoiding stasis of urine by emptying the bladder every 2-4 hours will prevent overdistention of the bladder and future urinary tract infections.
D. If infected, the sex partner must be evaluated and treated
A. A 1:10 solution of household bleach and water is recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to kill the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
D. Given the data, presurgical anxiety is suspected. The client needs an opportunity to talk about concerns related to surgery before further actions (which may mask the anxiety).
C. A quick look at the client can help identify the type and cause of the ventilator alarm. Disconnection of the tube from the ventilator, bronchospasm, and anxiety are some of the obvious reasons that could trigger an alarm.
A. Contact isolation has been advised by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to control transmission of MRSA, which includes gloves and handwashing.
D. In response to the question of the client, the nurse needs to provide brief, accurate information. Some clients who have had gastrectomies are able to tolerate three meals a day before discharge from the hospital. However, for the majority of clients, it takes 6-12 months before their surgically reduced stomach has stretched enough to accommodate a larger meal.
A. This allows the client to elaborate his concern and provides the nurse a baseline of assessment
C. Use of eye patches may be continued postoperatively, depending on surgeon preference. This is done to achieve >90% success rate of the surgery.
B. Assessment and more data collection are needed. The client may have gastrointestinal or neurological problems that account for the symptoms. The anorexia could result from medications, poor dentition, or indigestion, the bruises may be attributed to ataxia, frequent falls, vertigo, or medication.
A. The catheter should be washed with soap and water after withdrawal and placed in a clean container. It can be reused until it is too hard or too soft for insertion. Self-care, prevention of complications, and cost-effectiveness are important in home management.
D. The client may have herpes zoster (shingles), a viral infection. The nurse should use standard precautions in assessing the lesions. Immunocompromised clients are at risk for infection.
B. After a minimum of 24 hours of IV antibiotics, the client is no longer considered communicable. Evaluation of the nurse’s knowledge is needed for safe care and continuity of care.
D. Stem of the question supports this choice by stating that the client has difficulty accepting the potential disability.
B. Toxoplasmosis is an opportunistic infection and a parasite of birds and mammals. The oocysts remain infectious in moist soil for about 1 year.