A. Clients in the early stage of spinal cord damage experience an atonic bladder, which is characterized by the absence of muscle tone, an enlarged capacity, no feeling of discomfort with distention, and overflow with a large residual. This leads to urinary stasis and infection. High fluid intake limits urinary stasis and infection by diluting the urine and increasing urinary output.
D. The temperature of 102 ºF (38.8ºC) or greater lead to an increased metabolism and cardiac workload.
B. Dysuria, nocturia, and urgency are all signs an irritable bladder after radiation therapy.
A. The occipital lobe is involve with visual interpretation.
C. Mineralocorticoids such as aldosterone cause the kidneys to retain sodium ions. With sodium, water is also retained, elevating blood pressure. Absence of this hormone thus causes hypotension.
B. As a person with a tear in the lung inhales, air moves through that opening into the intrapleural and causes partial or complete collapse of the lungs.
A. Heavy alcohol ingestion predisposes an individual to the development of oral cancer.
D. The greater the density of compact bone makes it stronger than the cancellous bone. Compact bone forms from cancellous bone by the addition of concentric rings of bones substances to the marrow spaces of cancellous bone. The large marrow spaces are reduced to haversian canals.
A. Viscosity, a measure of a fluid’s internal resistance to flow, is increased as the number of red cells suspended in plasma.
C. Hemiparesis creates instability. Using a cane provides a wider base of support and, therefore greater stability.
D. Manual stretching exercises will assist in keeping the muscles and tendons supple and pliable, reducing the traumatic consequences of repetitive activity.
C. The length of the urethra is shorter in females than in males; therefore microorganisms have a shorter distance to travel to reach the bladder. The proximity of the meatus to the anus in females also increases this incidence.
D. Temperature may increase within the first 24 hours and persist as long as a week.
C. The hips are in extension when the client is prone; this keeps the hips from flexing.
C. Steroids have an anti-inflammatory effect that can reduce arthritic pannus formation.
A. Activities such as rigorous brushing of hair and teeth cause increased intraocular pressure and may lead to hemorrhage in the anterior chamber.
C. This decrease in PaO2 indicates respiratory failure; it warrants immediate medical evaluation.
C. This is truthful and provides basic information that may prompt recollection of what happened; it is a starting point.
D. Clients adapting to illness frequently feel afraid and helpless and strike out at health team members as a way of maintaining control or denying their fear.
C. There are few physical restraints on activity postoperatively, but the client may have emotional problems resulting from the body image changes.
B. Clients need to be prepared emotionally for the body image changes that occur after bariatric surgery. Clients generally experience excessive abdominal skin folds after weight stabilizes, which may require a panniculectomy. Body image disturbance often occurs in response to incorrectly estimating one’s size; it is not uncommon for the client to still feel fat no matter how much weight is lost.
D. Surgery on the bowel has no direct anatomic or physiologic effect on sexual performance. However, the nurse should encourage verbalization.
C. Osteoporosis is not restricted to women; it is a potential major health problem of all older adults; estimates indicate that half of all women have at least one osteoporitic fracture and the risk in men is estimated between 13% and 25%; a bone mineral density measurement assesses the mass of bone per unit volume or how tightly the bone is packed.
A. Around-the-clock administration of analgesics is recommended for acute pain in the older adult population; this help to maintain a therapeutic blood level of pain medication.
C. Generally, female voices have a higher pitch than male voices; older adults with presbycusis (hearing loss caused by the aging process) have more difficulty hearing higher-pitched sounds.
D. Aldactone is a potassium-sparing diuretic; hyperkalemia is an adverse effect.
A. Albuterol’s sympathomimetic effect causes cardiac stimulation that may cause tachycardia and palpitation.
D. Changing positions slowly will help prevent the side effect of orthostatic hypotension.
A. Therapeutic effects of simvastatin include decreased serum triglyceries, LDL and cholesterol.
C. Nitroglycerine is sensitive to light and moisture ad must be stored in a dark, airtight container.
A. Visual disturbance are a sign of toxicity because retinopathy can occur with this drug.
B. Toxic levels of Lanoxin stimulate the medullary chemoreceptor trigger zone, resulting in nausea and subsequent anorexia.
B. Warfarin derivatives cause an increase in the prothrombin time and INR, leading to an increased risk for bleeding. Any abnormal or excessive bleeding must be reported, because it may indicate toxic levels of the drug.
B. Levodopa is the metabolic precursor of dopamine. It reduces sympathetic outflow by limiting vasoconstriction, which may result in orthostatic hypotension.
A. Tensilon, an anticholinesterase drug, causes temporary relief of symptoms of myasthenia gravis in client who have the disease and is therefore an effective diagnostic aid.
D. Carbamazepine ( Tegretol) is administered to control pain by reducing the transmission of nerve impulses in clients with trigeminal neuralgia.
C. Potassium iodide, which aids in decreasing the vascularity of the thyroid gland, decreases the risk for hemorrhage.
C. Hydrocortisone is a glucocorticoid that has anti-inflammatory action and aids in metabolism of carbohydrate, fat, and protein, causing elevation of blood glucose. Thus it enables the body to adapt to stress.
D. DDAVP replaces the ADH, facilitating reabsorption of water and consequent return of normal urine output and thirst.
B. To prevent crystal formation, the client should have sufficient intake to produce 1000 to 1500 mL of urine daily while taking this drug.
A. Prolonged chemotherapy may slow the production of leukocytes in bone marrow, thus suppressing the activity of the immune system. Antibiotics may be required to help counter infections that the body can no longer handle easily.
A. Any hormone normally produced by the body must be withdrawn slowly to allow the appropriate organ to adjust and resume production.
B. Dehydration is most readily and accurately measured by serial assessment of body weight; 1 L of fluid weighs 2.2 pounds.
A. The concentration of potassium is greater inside the cell and is important in establishing a membrane potential, a critical factor in the cell’s ability to function.
B. The kidneys normally eliminate potassium from the body; hyperkalemia may necessitate dialysis.
C. Vital signs monitor cardiorespiratory status; hyperkalemia causes serious cardiac dysrhythmias.
A. Once treatment with insulin for diabetic ketoacidosis is begun, potassium ions reenter the cell, causing hypokalemia; therefore potassium, along with the replacement fluid, is generally supplied.
C. Potassium, the major intracellular cation, functions with sodium and calcium to regulate neuromuscular activity and contraction of muscle fibers, particularly the heart muscle. In hypokalemia these symptoms develop.
A. Because IV solutions enter the body’s internal environment, all solutions and medications utilizing this route must be sterile to prevent the introduction of microbes.
A. A low pH and bicarbonate level are consistent with metabolic acidosis.