B. This shows a weak sense of moral consciousness. According to Freudian theory, personality disorders stem from a weak superego.
C. The client needs to have his or her feelings acknowledged, with encouragement to discuss feelings, and be reassured about the nurse’s presence.
D. Part of the definition of a crisis is a time span of 4-6 weeks.
C. The client is most likely confused, rather than exhibiting acting-out, hostile behavior. Frequent toileting will allow urination in an appropriate place.
D. The client needs basic, simple orientation that directly relates to the here-and-now, and does not require verbal interaction.
A. Although all options may appear correct. A is the best because it focuses on a range of possible positive reinforcers, a basis for an effective behavior modification program. It can lead to concrete, specific nursing interventions right away and provides a therapeutic use of “control” for the 16-year-old.
A. The nurse needs to wait and see: do not “jump the gun”; do not assume that the client wants to know now.
D. The woman is experiencing an actual loss and will probably exhibit many of the same symptoms as a person who has lost someone to death.
C. This option is an example of pointing out reality- the nurse’s perception.
B. This response asks information that the nurse can use. If the client understands the statement, the nurse can support the therapist when focusing on connection between food, love, and mother. If the client does not understand thestatement, the nurse can help get clarification from the therapist.
C. This option redirects the client to talk to her husband.
D. This is an example of reaction formation, a coping mechanism.
A. Often the verbalized ideas are jumbled, but the underlying feelings are discernible and must be acknowledged.
D. Autistic children do best with solitary play because they typically do not interact with others in a socially comprehensible and acceptable way.
A. The nurse is asking the client to clarify and further discuss feelings.
C. Denial is the act of avoiding disagreeable realities by ignoring them.
B. Reactions when told of a life-threatening illness stem from Kübler-Ross’ ideas on death and dying. Denial is a typical grief response, and usually is a first reaction.
D. Shock and anger are commonly the primary initial reactions.
A. This option avoids external stimuli, yet channels the excess motor activity that is often part of the manic phase.
B. The patient needs a brief, factual answer.
C. Trihexyphenidyl HCI (Artane) is often used to counteract side effect of pseudoparkinsonism, which often accompanies the use of phenothiazine, such as chlorpromazine HCI (Thorazine or Trifluoperazine HCI (Stelazine).
D. Persons with dementia needs sameness, consistency, structure, routine, and predictability.
A. This is a false belief developed in response to an emotional need.
D. The client must be constantly observed.
B. The appetite is diminished and sleeping is affected to a client with depression.
A. It is important to acknowledge a statement, even if it is not understood.
D. Rationalization is the process of constructing plausible reasons for one’s responses.
C. The client has ideas that someone is out to kill her.
D. A serious side effect of Imipramine HCI (Tofranil) is urinary retention (voiding problems)
A. This allows the parents/family to grieve over the loss of the child, by going through the steps of leave taking.
B. Assess for suicidal tendencies, especially during early therapy. There is an increased risk of seizures in debilitated client and those with a history of seizures.
D. The nurse helps to activate by doing something with the client.
C. Preschool children commonly experience fears and fantasies regarding invasive procedures. The nurse should attempts to momentarily distract the child with a simple task that can be easily accomplished while the child remains in the side-lying position. The suppository can be slipped into place while the child is counting, and then the nurse can praise the child for cooperating, while holding the buttocks together to prevent expulsion of the suppository.
A. This is the more inclusive answer, although diet restrictions (answer1) are important, their purpose is to prevent hypertensive crisis (answer 2).
D. This comes closest to beginning to focus on family-centered approach to intervene in the “conspiracy of silence”. This is therefore the best among the options.
A. The nurse should neither challenge nor use logic to dispel an irrational belief.
D. Any threat to the safety of oneself or other should always be taken seriously and never disregarded by the nurse.
C. The likelihood of multiple contributing factors may make this person at higher risk for suicide. Some factors that may exist are physical illness related to alcoholism, emotional factors ( anxiety, guilt, remorse), social isolation due to impaired relationships and economic problems related to employment.
B. A ritual, such as compulsive handwashing, is an attempt to allay anxiety caused by unconscious impulses that are frightening.
D. This is the most neutral answer by process of elimination.
B. This option allows a normal grief response (anger).
C. Personality disorders stem from a weak superego, implying a lack of adequate controls.
C. The client will be easier to care for if he has his hearing aid and glasses.
A. Frequent contacts at times of stress are important, especially when a client is isolated.
B. This response is aimed at redirecting the inappropriate behavior.
D. This option is best to decrease confusion and disorientation to place and time.
C. This option helps the woman to think through and elaborate on her own thoughts and prognosis.
B. It is mostly likely that grief would be expressed because of object loss.
D. Neutral, nonthreatening topics are best in attempting to encourage a response.
C. It is important to externalize the anger away from self.